All-time high / all-time low
This refers to the highest or lowest the price has ever been for a given asset.
Bull market
A bull market describes the phenomenon where market prices are generally trending upward over a given period and public perception is positive.
Bear market
A bear market is the reverse of a bull market, where outlooks are negative as market prices seem to be on a downward trend.
Blockchain
Blockchains are a method of storing data in a decentralized way.  The data can be duplicated and distributed across the network of computer systems on that blockchain. Usually operated by a community of miners or validators, blockchains don’t require a centralized intermediary to operate.
Block
Blockchains are built up of a growing list of transactions, which are formatted into blocks. Each block contains a cryptographic reference to the last, making it impossible to change the history of the blockchain.
Block reward
When blocks are created by miners or validators, a block reward is issued. This takes the form of newly minted cryptocurrency, which is used as an incentive for participants to help keep the blockchain running.
Consensus
Consensus, in the context of cryptocurrencies, refers to the method by which blockchain participants agree on what should be included into the blockchain. The two most prominent consensus mechanisms currently used by crypto networks today are proof-of-work and proof-of-stake.
Cryptography
Cryptography refers to the science of keeping information secure and safe, and is used in many areas in computing today. Cryptography helps secure blockchains and cryptocurrencies through the SHA-256 one-way hashing algorithm to enable Proof-of-Work, and through private-key/public-key cryptography for authenticating and validating cryptocurrency transfers.
dApp
dApps, or decentralized applications, are programs that run on top of blockchain networks and use smart contracts to provide trustless tools and services for end users. The most widely adopted smart contract platform today is the Ethereum protocol, where hundreds of dApps exist today.
DAO
A DAO, or decentralized autonomous, organization refers to a business entity that is represented as transparent rules in a number of smart contracts. They aim to reduce centralization as much as possible, typically giving the community the ability to govern the future of the DAO and its products by voting for or against any proposed changes or updates.
Decentralized
Decentralized is a word that is used to describe technologies that make use of distributed systems with the aim to provide increased security and redundancy, and to lessen a reliance on governing bodies and centralized intermediaries.
DeFi
DeFi, or Decentralized Finance, refers to the growing ecosystem of applications and services that leverage blockchain tech and cryptocurrencies to provide decentralized financial services to end users. Typically deployed to the Ethereum network, hundreds of DeFi applications exist today that allow users to borrow, lend, and earn interest on cryptocurrencies. DeFi applications are made up of a collection of smart contracts that define the exact process and flow of user funds, DeFi applications allow users
DYOR
Do Your Own Research. This is often used as a warning by cryptocurrency influencers to other investors, reminding us that there is no better substitute for due diligence than our own research. It is worth remembering that cryptocurrency influencers and media outlets can have different incentives and goals. Ask yourself; is the news article or review I am reading unbiased, and factually correct?
ERC-20
Used on the Ethereum network, ERC-20 is the most vastly used crypto-token standard. It allows developers to easily create digital currencies, which are immediately compatible with existing infrastructure.
ERC-721
This is the Ethereum network’s standard for non-fungible tokens—NFTs. It allows for creation of unique, uncounterfitable tokens. It can be used for creating digital collectibles and gaming items or to tokenize real-world unique items.
EVM
The Ethereum Virtual Machine, or EVM, is essentially a global blockchain-based computer. It provides a runtime environment for developers to create trustless, decentralized applications on the Ethereum network.
Fiat
Fiat refers to types of money within the traditional financial ecosystem. Examples of fiat currencies are the US dollar and the euro. Working with fiat currencies in the blockchain landscape typically requires trusting a centralized central entity to custody your funds.
Fork
A fork describes a situation where a blockchain experiences a change in the protocol that produces two parallel chains. Forks typically occur when crypto developers or communities decide that the protocol must be changed or updated in some way. There are two types of forks: hard forks, which break backwards-compatibility and cause a new currency to be issued, and soft forks, which update the ruleset—requiring support from a majority of the network’s participants.
FOMO
Fear of missing out. A type of social anxiety arising from the notion that others are having fun or enjoying the benefits of an event while the person experiencing FOMO isn’t. In crypto markets, it usually refers to watching the tokens you do not own go through explosive upward price movements.
FUD
Fear, uncertainty, and doubt—refers usually to information that is likely to push people toward a pessimistic view of the market.
Fundamental analysis
A method of evaluating the value of a given asset, as well as estimating its future performance. In the context of crypto projects, it takes into account such factors as the technological and innovative value of a product, the team behind it, or the token distribution model and its use cases.
Gas
Refers to a fee charged for performing operations on Ethereum network—sending transactions and deploying and interacting with smart contracts. It is usually priced in Gwei, a small fraction of Ether.
Gwei
Wei is the smallest, indivisible part of Ethereum’s native currency Ether. 1 Ether is equal to 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 wei (1018). Gwei stands for Giga-wei, so 109 wei.
Halving
The reduction of the block reward for Bitcoin mining by 50%. A halving occurs after 210,000 blocks have been mined since the last, which corresponds to roughly every 4 years. The Bitcoin network started with a 50 BTC block reward and currently, after 3 halvings, it is at a level of 6.25 BTC per block.
Hash rate
Measuring unit of processing power—it tells how many network-specific calculations are done per second by the Bitcoin network. A hash rate of 1 tera hash means the network can perform 1 trillion calculations in one second.
HODL
The term comes from misspelling the word hold. It refers to the action of not selling your cryptos, often in opposition to the current market trend.
KYC
KYC, or Know Your Customer, refers to the process by which a financial service provider must gather and verify information about their customers on registration. These requirements are enforced by governing bodies in both the customer and the business’s jurisdictions.
Ledger
A ledger refers to a database of transactions. In the context of cryptocurrencies, the ledger is the transaction history of a given cryptocurrency as stored on the blockchain.
Liquidity
Liquidity can refer to two things. Most commonly, it is used to describe the quality of a cryptocurrency to be freely bought and sold. It can be used to mean the amount of cryptocurrencies available to trade within a liquidity pool on a decentralized exchange.
Limit order
An order placed on an exchange to buy or sell an asset at a certain price or better. A buy order will be executed at a target price or higher, while a sell will only occur at a chosen or lower price.
Margin trading
It is a method of trading that involves using borrowed funds. Compared to ordinary trading, it provides access to greater sums of money, allowing traders to leverage their positions and maximize their profits, while exposing them also to higher risks.
Market cap
Market capitalization. The price of an asset multiplied by circulating supply represents the total value of a given asset and its market. It is often used as a measurement of a project's success.
Mining
Mining is the process of contributing computing resources to a blockchain network in order to create new blocks. In exchange, miners earn rewards.
Mining pool
A mining pool is a group or community of miners that have pooled their computing or hashing power together. Since miners in proof-of-work blockchains all compete to be the first to create new valid blocks, pooling can help these participants increase or level out their mining profits.
NFT
A non-fungible token is a type of Ethereum token. Like other tokens, they can be transferred between wallets and used in smart contracts, but they are not “fungible”—meaning they cannot be replicated or subdivided and each unit is unique. These have seen significant traction over the last year as big names in the entertainment and art worlds have released their own artworks and digital collectibles, with some selling for millions of dollars on platforms like OpenSea.
Network fees
A network fee is required to ensure your transaction is processed on the Bitcoin or Ethereum network. The fee is used as an incentive to reward network participants, like miners and validators,  for processing transactions and helping to secure the network.
Node
A node is a type of participant in the blockchain network that stores data and contributes to the consensus process to ensure that all new transactions and blocks are valid. Miners act as full nodes, but anyone may also operate a node to monitor the network without contributing computing resources.
Nonce
A nonce is a random whole number that miners in proof-of-work blockchains like Bitcoin iterate over to solve the cryptographic puzzle that allows them to add a new block and earn the block reward. A miner’s goal is to find a nonce where the SHA-256 hashed output begins with a certain number of zeroes. This allows PoW networks to adjust the mining difficulty, requiring more zeros if blocks are being mined too fast.
Paper wallet
A paper wallet is a type of cryptocurrency wallet that is stored on paper. The goal of these wallets is to reduce private key exposure to a minimum. This is a type of “cold storage,” where private keys are not exposed to any internet-connected device that could be hacked or attacked. Today, paper wallets are largely seen as an unsafe option to store your crypto, since to generate such a wallet, they would have to use a central website and GUI—which are just as insecure and prone to attacks as any other centralized service.
Private key
A private key is used to identify the owner of a given cryptocurrency wallet. It acts much like a password, and anyone with a private key can access the funds from the associated wallet address.
Proof-of-stake
Proof-of-stake, or PoS, is a consensus mechanism used by blockchains to ensure correct data is stored to the blockchain. In proof-of-stake blockchains, participants who deposit an amount of cryptocurrency to the network (known as “staking”) are given the opportunity to help generate new blocks and earn block rewards.
Proof-of-work
Proof-of-work, or PoW, is another consensus mechanism that leverages a network of computers called miners that verify transactions in exchange for crypto rewards. Anyone can become a miner, competing to create new blocks by using computing resources to solve a cryptographic puzzle called a hash. The first to do this earns the right to append their new block to the blockchain.
Public key
Generated alongside your private key as a pair, your public key is a long string of characters that is run through an algorithm to produce your wallet address.
Sats or Satoshis
Sats are the smallest possible unit of Bitcoin (BTC), at 0.00000001 BTC. Named after Bitcoin’s enigmatic creator Satoshi Nakamoto, one Sat is equivalent to one hundred millionth of a Bitcoin.
SegWit
SegWit, short for segregated witness, was an update to the Bitcoin network in August 2017 that aimed to increase the number of transactions that are able to fit onto each block by removing signature data from transactions.
SHA-256
SHA-256 is a one-way cryptographic hashing algorithm that takes an input of any size and converts it to a random string of a fixed length. Many blockchain projects today make use of SHA-256 to enable proof-of-work mining for verifying transactions.
Smart contracts
A smart contract is a program that is stored on, and operated by, a blockchain network. Smart contract platforms like Ethereum allow developers to create decentralized applications that can work with cryptocurrencies in order to provide transparent financial tools and services for end users.
Solidity
Solidity is a high-level programming that is used to write smart contracts. Created by Gavin Wood, co-founder of Ethereum, Solidity allows developers to create immutable, unstoppable programs that anyone can interact with.
TA or technical analysis
Technical analysis refers to the process of studying price charts and using various market indicators to determine the state of the market. This is a deep area of study for expert traders, who aim to use technical analysis to their advantage when trying to predict future market movements.
Testnet
Smart contract platforms like Ethereum and Binance Smart Chain provide developers a testing environment in which they can deploy and test smart contracts, called a testnet. These testing environments usually work the same as the main network, but where the cryptocurrencies used are valueless and can be acquired for free from a testnet faucet.
Token
Tokens, distinct from cryptocurrencies, usually refer to tokens that have been issued by deploying a smart contract to the Ethereum blockchain. Thousands of tokens exist today, and many of the top 100 cryptocurrencies by market cap are in fact Ethereum tokens.
UTXO
Wallet balances in cryptocurrency networks are not actually stored as a variable, like John Doe’s balance: 100 BTC. Instead, they are calculated from several UTXOs, which are essentially units of unspent cryptocurrency left over from the sum of all transactions made on the wallet. Cumulatively, the sum of an address’s UTXOs make up that wallet’s available balance.
Validators
Validators are participants in a blockchain network who verify incoming transactions. Used in proof-of-stake platforms instead of miners, validators help maintain the integrity of a blockchain and keep it secure, receiving rewards for their work. Validators are chosen by the network to validate new blocks based on the amount of cryptocurrency they have staked in the network.
Volatility
The opposite of stability, volatility refers to an asset's tendency to vary in price. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are notoriously volatile, which is to be expected for such a young market and can be the main appeal for crypto traders.
Wallet
Wallets are tools used by crypto holders to control their private keys and provide an interface to make transactions. Both software and hardware wallets are available today, and wallets can be custodial or non-custodial. The distinction here is whether or not the user retains full control of their private key.
Whale
A “whale” is a loose slang term used to describe big players in the cryptocurrency markets, from institutional investors to hedge funds or wealthy individuals.
account
A public and private keypair that gives you access to, and control over, the tokens held under a specific address. The blockchain itself keeps track of what tokens are held in by each account; the tokens aren’t “in” the wallet or account, but we often talk that way because the metaphor makes sense.In Ethereum-compatible blockchains, a Secret Recovery Phrase (SRP) can generate a number of accounts that approaches infinity. Each one of these accounts has its own keypair, but all of them can be controlled by the SRP.Just like your Reddit account has a username (public) and password (private), so does your Ethereum account; the difference being that you are the custodian of your Ethereum keys, while Reddit holds your login information for their site. For additional security, you can use a password to encrypt your private key which would result in a username (public) and password (private) and password for that password (private + more secure). See also ‘keystore file’, ‘Secret Recovery Phrase’.
address
Used to send and receive transactions on a blockchain network, and to identify different users; also referred to as a ‘public key’. An address is an alphanumeric character string, which can also be represented as a scannable QR code. In Ethereum, the address begins with 0x. For example: 0x06A85356DCb5b307096726FB86A78c59D38e08ee
air-gapping
A method for securing computers in which the device does not connect to the internet or any other open networks. Many hardware wallets use air-gapping as a security mechanism to keep users’ private keys or Secret Recovery Phrase offline, and thus safer from any kind of attack.
airdrop
A token distribution method used to send cryptocurrency or tokens to wallet addresses. Sometimes airdrops are used for marketing purposes in exchange for simple tasks like reshares, referrals, or app downloads.
altcoin
As Bitcoin was the first cryptocurrency, the term ‘altcoin’ was created to refer to ‘any cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin’. The term is less used in Ethereum or smart contract-enabled blockchain communities. Many altcoins are forks of Bitcoin with minor changes (e.g., Litecoin). See also ‘fork’.
AML (Anti-Money Laundering)
A set of international laws enacted to diminish the potential for criminal organizations or individuals to launder money. These rules and laws are applied to cryptocurrencies with varying effects in different jurisdictions.
API (Application Programming Interface)
A predefined set of requests that one program can make to another in order to transfer information between them. When you hear someone saying that an application is “getting information from” another source, it’s often doing so through an API.
AppChain
As interest in using public blockchains for different applications has grown, developers have begun creating app-specific chains that are custom-made and optimized for their application’s needs; these are therefore known as appchains. An appchain is generally not a full-blown blockchain, but offers an optimized execution environment for the application, while still relying on an underlying “Layer 1” blockchain for consensus. Sometimes referred to as a “Layer 3”, or “L3”. See also: “blockchain trilemma”, “modular blockchain”, “Layer 2”.
ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit)
ASICs are silicon chips designed to do a specific task. In ASICs used for mining cryptocurrencies, the ASIC will perform a calculation to find values that provide a desired solution when placed into a hashing algorithm.
attestation
Under the Proof of Stake mechanism (on Ethereum Proof of Work), every validator other than the one proposing a new block will provide an attestation, or vote, in favor of a block with which it agrees, hereby forming consensus and confirming the block and the transactions it contains. See also ‘Proof of Stake’.
B
Beacon Chain
The Beacon Chain was one element built in the infrastructure being built to scale Ethereum. It was the foundation for a transition from a Proof of Work (PoW) consensus mechanism to Proof of Stake (PoS). For more information, see this guide.
Bitcoin / bitcoin (BTC)
The first cryptocurrency based on a Proof of Work (PoW) blockchain. Bitcoin was created in 2009 by Satoshi Nakomoto — a pseudonym for an individual whose real identity is unknown — and the concept of cryptocurrency was outlined in a white paper titled “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.” Use “Bitcoin” for the blockchain/network; “bitcoin” for the cryptocurrency. The plural of bitcoin is just bitcoin; the abbreviation is BTC, with a space: I have 250 BTC.
block
Think of a blockchain as consisting of a ledger that is being constantly updated, and those changes synced between any number of different nodes (in fact, “distributed ledger technology” is another phrase used to describe it).After a certain number of transactions have been added to the ledger and consensus has been reached among the nodes that the transactions are valid, they are then cryptographically locked into a “block” and officially recorded. This “block” forms the basis for the next one; in this way, they are all linked together in a chain, hence–blockchain.
block height
The number of blocks connected together in the blockchain. For example, Height 0 would be the very first block, which is also called the Genesis Block.
block reward
The reward given to a miner or validator after it has successfully hashed a transaction block. Block rewards can be a mixture of coins and transaction fees. The composition depends on the policy used by the cryptocurrency in question, and whether all of the coins have already been successfully mined. The current block reward for the Bitcoin network is 12.5 bitcoins per block.
block time
When we talk about ‘block time’, we’re referring to how long it takes for a block of transactions (see ‘block’) to be confirmed by the network, either by miners under PoW or by validators under PoS. See also ‘Proof of Work’, ‘Proof of Stake’.
blockchain
A digital ledger comprised of unchangeable, digitally recorded data in packages called blocks. Each block is ‘chained’ to the next block using a cryptographic signature. Ethereum is a public blockchain, open to the world; its digital ledger is distributed, or synced, between many nodes; these nodes arrive at consensus regarding whether a transaction is valid before encrypting it, along with a number of other valid transactions, into a block. For more on blockchain technology, see here. See also ‘block’.
blockchain explorer
A blockchain explorer is an application, most often a website along with a corresponding API, that displays information about blockchain activity in a more human-friendly way. While a blockchain is designed to keep information forever, and be “readable by anyone”, finding the specific information you’re interested in may require indexing data off the blockchain–that is, sorting it according to given categories (sender address, token type, etc) into a separate database which can then be queried by the user; this essential function is provided by blockchain explorers. A prominent example is etherscan, which also offers explorers on a number of other networks.
blockchain trilemma
The “blockchain trilemma”, as the name implies, is a difficult decision based on three elements: decentralization, security, and scalability (or speed). These are three elements that are either necessary or desireable in public distributed networks, and often, designing a system that optimizes for one compromises on another.
bounty / bug bounty
A reward offered for exposing vulnerabilities and issues in computer code.
brain wallet
A blockchain account generated from a seed phrase or password or passphrase of your choosing. Humans are not capable of generating enough entropy, or randomness, and therefore the wallets derived from these phrases are insecure; brain wallets can be brute forced by super fast computers. For this reason, brain wallet are insecure and should not be used. See also ‘Seed phrase / Secret Recovery Phrase’.
bridge
A bridge is a tool built to move assets from one network to another. It’s also a verb, used to describe that action: “I bridged my ETH from Ethereum mainnet to Arbitrum.” Not all bridges are created equal, and you should be informed about what you’re doing before you use one. Read more about bridges on the Consensys blog, how to use them on the MetaMask Knowledge Base, or for a high-level discussion, see Vitalik Buterin’s landmark discussion on the topic.
BUIDL
Ostensibly coined (see what we did there) by Gitcoin’s Kevin Owocki. It reflects the Ethereum-focused mindset of not just investing in a cryptocurrency as a store of value, but rather investing in it as an ecosystem and a platform for public goods and software; it complements, in this sense, the now-infamous HODL.
bytecode
Bytecode is a “low-level” computer language, that is, meant to be processed by a computer, rather than a “high-level”, more human-readable, language. In Ethereum, higher-level Solidity is compiled into Ethereum bytecode, which is read by the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).
Byzantine fault tolerance
A Byzantine fault, or failure, is one of the most difficult failures to deal with in computer systems; this is because it takes into account the possibility that the information used to determine the current state of the system may–or may not–be reliable.While applicable in many realms of technology, this becomes of particular interest in public blockchain systems: how do we ensure that we can agree on the current state of the network when there is an incentive, often a significant financial incentive, to subvert the state of the network for one’s own profit? On a more basic level, if we’re coordinating a network running around the world on all kinds of different hardware and software, there are all kinds or problems that can occur that hinder the network’s ability to reach consensus on its current state. Therefore, a network that has been designed and implemented to be resistant to these sorts of failures, either due to malicious intent or technical failure, is said to be Byzantine Fault Tolerant.
Byzantium fork
A “hard fork” in the Ethereum network that occurred in October of 2017. For detailled information, see here; see also “hard fork”.
C
client (Ethereum or other compatible blockchain)
In computing in general, a ‘client’ is a program, running on a local computer, that is accessing data made available by a remote computer. In public blockchain networks, a ‘client’ is the software that actually does the work of syncing block data, confirming transactions, and participating in network consensus. A client usually includes a cryptocurrency software wallet. Consensys has supported efforts to maintain the Ethereum clients of Besu and Teku; see an up-to-date list of Ethereum clients here.
Codefi
Derived from “Commerce & Decentralized Finance”, Codefi, part of Consensys, is builds applications for commerce and financial use cases.
coin
The term ‘coin’ has some nuances. Strictly speaking, a ‘coin’ could be defined as: A fungible token (all of them identical) issued on a blockchain, either as the network’s transactional token, or through a smart contract deployed to that network. Some people may use ‘coins’ as shorthand for ‘bitcoin’; the immortal aphorism ‘not your keys, not your coins’ refers to bitcoins. Another thing to keep in mind is that, while coins are put forward as some sort of representation of value, that value can vary wildly from one ‘coin’ to another. A coin may represent the value of the computational resources of the network, or it may be ‘pegged’ to represent fiat currency value, or it may float according to the value placed on immaterial resources like NFTs, membership, or digital goods, to name a few.
cold wallet / cold storage
An offline wallet that is never connected to the internet. These wallets protect cryptocurrencies from getting hacked online. For more information, check out MetaMask’s Hardware Wallet Hub.
confirmation
A confirmation happens when a network has verified a blockchain transaction. Under a Proof of Work (PoW) consensus mechanism, this happens through a process known as mining; under Proof of Stake (PoS), the process is known as validation. Once a transaction is successfully confirmed, it theoretically cannot be reversed or double spent. The more confirmations a transaction has, the harder it becomes to perform a double spend attack.
consensus
The process used by a group of peers, or nodes, on a blockchain network to agree on the validity of transactions submitted to the network. Dominant consensus mechanisms are Proof of Work (PoW) and Proof of Stake (PoS).
Consensys
Short for Consensus Systems, Consensys is the software engineering leader of the blockchain space. But you’re here, so you already knew that.
Constantinople fork
One of the “hard forks” made to the Ethereum network, in February 2019. For more detailed information, see here; see also “hard fork”.
contract
See ‘smart contract’.
crypto-
Even though this prefix is originally Greek, our current usage comes from cryptography. Technologies that are referred to with the blanket term of “crypto” tech are underlain by cryptographic tools and processes (such as public/private key pairs) that enable innovative functionality and security. Of course, “cryptocurrency” often gets shortened to simply “crypto”, so this emerging field is full of instances where something “crypto” is being added to or shortened. With the emergence of the term “Web3”, arguably a distinction has begun to be made between “crypto”, referring to DeFi and other financial use cases of the technology, while “Web3” refers to the transition of Internet-based activities to more decentralized practices and platforms.
crypto bounties
Bounties paid for in cryptocurrency. See also “bug bounties”.
crypto-compliance
A blanket term used to refer to ensuring crypto projects conform with applicable regulations and laws.
cryptoeconomics
The economic analysis of decentralized finance; notably, the MIT Cryptoeconomics Lab.
cryptoassets
A useful blanket term that covers on-chain assets: cryptocurrencies, NFTs, and other, still emerging, products.
cryptocurrency
Digital currency that is based on mathematics and uses encryption techniques to regulate the creation of units of currency as well as the verification of funds transfers. Cryptocurrencies operate independently of a central bank, and are kept track of through distributed ledger technology.
cryptography
In its broadest sense, cryptography is the art of ‘hidden writing’ — using some sort of code to encrypt writing. In modern times, it often refers to the application of this concept within computing, communication, and data transfer through computers and computer networks. Cryptography has been protected as free speech in the United States, and provides the technological foundation that allows blockchain networks to be public: despite the ledger being open and accessible by all, control over the state of the ledger and the ability to move assets on it is mediated through cryptographic tools, such as the Secret Recovery Phrase.
D
DAO
A Digital Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO, pronounced like the Chinese concept) is a powerful and very flexible organizational structure built on a blockchain.Alternatively, the first known example of a DAO is referred to as The DAO. The DAO served as a form of investor-directed venture capital fund, which sought to provide enterprises with new decentralized business models. Ethereum-based, The DAO’s code was open source. The organization set the record for the most crowdfunded project in 2016. Those funds were partially stolen by hackers. The hack caused an Ethereum hard-fork which lead to the creation of Ethereum Classic.
decentralization
The transfer of authority and responsibility from a centralized organization, government, or party to a distributed network.
decentralized application (dapp)
An open source software application with backend (not user-facing) code running on a decentralized peer-to-peer network, rather than a centralized server. You may see alternate spellings: dApps, DApps, Dapps, and Đapps.
decentralized exchange (DEX)
A decentralized exchange is a platform for exchanging cryptocurrencies based on functionality programmed on the blockchain (i.e., in smart contracts). The trading is peer-to-peer, or between pools of liquidity. This is in contrast with a centralized exchange, which is more akin to a bank or investment firm that specializes in cryptocurrencies. Additionally, there are so-called on-ramp providers, who could be compared to currency brokers, exchanging traditional “fiat” money for cryptocurrencies, and do not hold customer’s funds “on deposit” the way a centralized exchange does. There are important technical and regulatory differences between these, which are constantly evolving.
DeFi
If cryptocurrency is Web3’s monetary system, its financial system is DeFi. This includes familiar concepts like loans and interest-bearing financial instruments, as well as so-called “DeFi primitives”, novel solutions like token swapping and liquidity pools.
deposit
In most web3 contexts, ‘depositing’ refers to the act of transferring some amount of token(s) to an address other than one’s own, most often to a smart contract controlled by a ‘protocol’, such as a decentralized exchange, video game or multiverse, DAO, etc. Generally, the user will receive something in return for their deposit, and the deposit can be claimed at the user’s discretion, or upon completion of given conditions. Compare with ‘stake’.
derive / derivation
To derive something is to obtain it from an original source. In the context of crypto-technology, we often discuss “deriving” wallets and accounts from seed phrases (aka Secret Recovery Phrases, or SRPs). This is literally true: the SRP represents a cryptographic key which is used to derive account addresses deterministically, meaning they will be derived the same way each time. Another, more technical, way of referring to this technology is to refer to “hierarchical deterministic” wallets.
Devcon
This is shorthand for the Ethereum Developers’ Conference.
difficulty
The concept outlining how hard it is to verify blocks in a blockchain network during Proof of Work mining. In the Bitcoin network, the difficulty of mining adjusts every 2016 blocks. This is to keep block verification time at ten minutes.
difficulty bomb
The difficulty bomb, along with the Beacon Chain and others, was a key element of Ethereum’s upgrade to Ethereum 2.0 and a Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism. As the name indicates, the difficulty bomb was a software mechanism that increased block verification difficulty, making it more expensive and difficult–eventually, prohibitively so–to mine a new block. Through economic incentive, and later, the raw limitations of computing power, this forced the shift to PoS consensus. See also ‘Proof of Stake’, ‘the Merge’.
digital asset
A digital commodity that is scarce, electronically transferable, and intangible with a market value.
digital identity
An online or networked identity adopted by an individual, organization, or electronic device.
digital signature
A code generated by public key encryption and attached to an electronically transmitted document in order to verify the contents of the document.
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Attack
A type of cyber-attack in which the perpetrator continuously overwhelms the system with requests in order to prevent service of legitimate requests.
distributed ledger
A type of database which spreads across multiple sites, countries, or institutions. Records are stored sequentially in a continuous ledger. Distributed ledger data can be either “permissioned” or “unpermissioned”, determining who can view it. This term is used, often, to refer in general to public blockchain technology, as ‘crypto’ has come to mean ‘cryptocurrency’, ‘web3’ is the collective community, and ‘blockchain’, after all, is “just” the data structure used to sync the distributed ledger itself.
double spend
The ‘double spend’ is the benchmark security concern of blockchain networks: how do we ensure that someone doesn’t send the same transaction to two different entities, essentially “spending their money twice”? This is the cornerstone of the consensus mechanism, ensuring that all nodes of the network are “in agreement” about which assets are allocated to which addresses, on an ongoing basis, to prevent malicious actions such as a double spend.
E
EIP (Ethereum Improvement Proposal)
The EIP process is a public and open process through which suggestions are made as to how to change (and hopefully, improve) the way the Ethereum network functions as a whole; the official repository is here. Individual EIPs are referred to by the name assigned to them in the repository, for example, EIP-1559. Keep in mind that as it is an iterative, lengthy process, some EIPs never get fully approved, and some do, and many end up somewhere in a gray area of ‘partially implemented’.
encrypted vs unencrypted keys
As discussed elsewhere, public and private cryptographic key pairs are one of the technologies that underpins cryptocurrencies and “crypto” tech in general. In MetaMask, an unencrypted private key is 64 characters long, and it is used to unlock or restore wallets. An encrypted key is also 64 letters long and is a regular private key that has gone through the process of encryption. Usually, encrypted private keys are kept within the extension or device they are encrypted by, and they remain out of sight from the user. This is meant to add another layer of security to keep a user’s wallet information safe.By way of example: if the world ‘Apple’ was your private key, then it was encrypted three letters down the alphabet, your new encrypted key would be ‘Dssoh’. Since you know the way to encrypt this key, you could derive the original private key from it by reversing the method of encryption.
encryption
Encrpytion, literally ‘in a hidden place’, is the art and science of encoding information to control who can read it, or how it is to be read. Encryption occurs in natural (human) languages, as well as in machine and computer languages. Highly complex, and therefore difficult to decipher, encryption is an essential element enabling blockchain networks to be simultaneously public and secure.
Enterprise Ethereum Alliance (EEA)
A group of Ethereum core developers, startups, and large companies working together to commercialize and use Ethereum for different business applications. Website here.
entropy
In the context of cryptography, ‘entropy’ refers to ‘randomness’; generally, the more random something is (the more entropy it has), the more secure it is.
epoch
An epoch, in general, is a measure of time, or of blockchain progression, on a given blockchain. In Ethereum Proof of Stake, an epoch consists of 32 slots, each lasting 12 seconds, for a total of 6.4 minutes per epoch. There is additional functionality built upon the epoch measure in the Beacon Chain to help ensure security and proper operation of the Chain.
ERC-20 Token Standard
ERC is the abbreviation for Ethereum Request for Comment and is followed by the assignment number of the standard. ERC-20 is a technical standard for smart contracts which is used to issue the majority of tokens (in particular, cryptocurrency tokens) extant on Ethereum. This list of rules states the requirements that a token must fulfill to be compliant and function within the Ethereum network.
ERC-721 Token Standard
As stated above, this is another standard for Ethereum smart contracts, which allows for the issuance of a non-fungible token: this is the standard that created what we all now know as an NFT. This token standard is used to represent a unique digital asset that is not interchangeable, as opposed to the ERC-20 (or other equivalent) standard, which issues identical, interchangeable tokens.
ether (ETH)
Ether is the native currency of the Ethereum blockchain network. Ether—also referred to as ETH (pronounced with a long “e”, like “teeth” without the “t”)—functions as a fuel of the Ethereum ecosystem by acting as a medium of incentive and form of payment for network participants to execute essential operations. The cryptocurrency of Ethereum has a lowercase e. The plural of ether is just ether; its abbreviation is ETH, with a space: I have 10 ETH. (nice!)
ether (denominations)
There are a number of denominations of the currency we know as ‘ether’ or ETH; for the definitive explanation, see the original Ethereum Homestead documentation here.
Ethereum
A public blockchain network and decentralized software platform upon which developers build and run applications. As it is a proper noun, it should always be capitalized.
Etherscan
A popular website for analyzing activity on the Ethereum blockchain. See ‘blockchain explorer’.
ENS
The Ethereum Name Service is a protocol, managed by a DAO, which assigns human-readable and easy-to-remember addresses to Ethereum addresses and assets, homologous to the traditional internet’s DNS.
ERC
Ethereum Request for Comment, or ERC, is a bit of a misnomer, as it is used to refer to suggestions for modifications that have already made it through the Ethereum Improvement Protocol (EIP) process and have been made standard on Ethereum. An ERC is, essentially, a set of standards for a given operation or topic on the Ethereum network. The authoritative list can be foundhere.
EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine)
The EVM is a virtual machine that operates on the Ethereum network. It is Turing complete and allows anyone, anywhere to execute arbitrary EVM bytecode. All Ethereum nodes run on the EVM. It is home for smart contracts based on the Ethereum blockchain.
exchange
A place to trade cryptocurrency. Centralized exchanges, operated by companies like Coinbase and Gemini, function as intermediaries, while decentralized exchanges do not have a central authority.
F
faucet
A faucet is an application, sometimes a very simple website, other times more complex, that dispenses cryptocurrency. While some networks, especially those in early launch stages, offer “real Mainnet” tokens via faucets, it is much more common for a faucet to be present on a test network, or testnet. These faucets are used by developers to test out dapps or smart contracts before deploying them on Ethereum Mainnet, or users who want to practice an action on the blockchain with no risk. Tokens dispensed by a test faucet stay on the test networks and cannot be exchanged for mainnet equivalents.
fiat currency
Government-issued currency. For example, US Dollars (USD), Euros (EUR), Yuan (CNY), and Yen (JPY).
final, finality
A transaction is considered “final” once it can no longer be changed. In a sense, this happens once there are sufficient confirmations of the transaction, but for all intents and purposes, a transaction is final once the block that contains it is mined or validated. Keep in mind that this reflects a fundamental rule of blockchains: unlike traditional financial systems where charges can be “reversed”, there is no “undoing” a transaction on the blockchain. Once finality is reached, the transaction is immutable.
finney
A denomination of ether. See ether (denomination).
fork
‘Forking’ is a term that comes from the world of collaborative software development, and refers to the action of copying an existing application or set of code and modifying it to create an alternate version. At the blockchain protocol level, a ‘fork’ creates an alternative version of a blockchain. Forks are often enacted intentionally to apply upgrades to a network. Soft Forks render two chains with some compatibility, while Hard Forks create a new version of the chain that must be adopted to continue participation. In the instance of a contentious Hard Fork, this can create two versions of a blockchain network. See also “hard fork”.
G
gas
A measure of the computational steps required for a transaction on the Ethereum network. This then equates to a fee for network users paid in small units of ETH specified as gwei. See also “ether (denominations)”. For more on gas, see MetaMask’s user guide here.
gas limit
The gas limit is the maximum amount you’re willing to pay for any given transaction to go through the Ethereum network. Another way of looking at it is as a “rough estimate” of how much computing power your transaction will take.
gas price
The gas price is what it sounds like: the cost the network is paid for the computational work being performed in a given transaction. It is paid in units of ETH called gwei. Depending on network congestion, the gas price may vary significantly.
genesis block
The initial block of data computed in the history of a blockchain network.
gwei
A minuscule and common denomination of ETH, and the unit in which gas prices are often specified. See ‘ether (denominations)’ entry for more information.
H
halving
Many cryptocurrencies have a finite supply, which makes them a scarce digital commodity. For example, the total amount of bitcoin that will ever be issued is 21 million. The number of bitcoins generated per block is decreased 50% every four years. This is called “halving.” The final halving will take place in the year 2140.
hard fork
A hard fork occurs when there is a change in the blockchain that is not backward compatible (not compatible with older versions), thus requiring all participants to upgrade to the new version in order to be able to continue participating on the network. See also “fork”.
hardware wallet
A hardware wallet is a physical device that is used to store cryptographic keys, and generally, sign transactions. Some hardware wallets can be connected physically or through software to internet connectivity; others are ‘air-gapped’, receiving transaction requests and sending transaction approvals through a mechanism such as a QR code. The overall goal of using a hardware wallet to manage keys and signatures is to reduce the likelihood of your keys or Secret Recovery Phrase from being somehow stolen or compromised, due to being connected to the Internet. For more on hardware wallets, see MetaMask’s Hardware Wallet Hub.
hash
In computing, ‘hashing’ is an operation performed on lists or sets of data to create a reliable index for that data. A particular datum, or a reference to it, is fed into an algorithm, which transforms the datum and returns a standardized, and generally unrecognizable, ‘hash’ of it, sometimes referred to as that datum or file’s “digital fingerprint.” Each block in a blockchain contains the hash value that validated the block before it, followed by its own hash value (this is how the continuity of the ‘chain’ is constructed). Hashes can be used to confirm that blockchain transactions are complete and valid. You may see references to the “transaction hash” or “tx hash”; this should be understood as “unique identifier of the transaction”.
HD wallet
Hierarchical Deterministic wallets were first created for Bitcoin, and enable the creation of a very large number of accounts based on an initial seed phrase. This technology was later adopted in Ethereum wallets; when restoring a MetaMask wallet from the Secret Recovery Phrase, for example, if you “create” accounts, they will be the same accounts as previously created from that same phrase; they are derived from it.
hexadecimal
Hexadecimal is a base 16, rather than base 10, counting system. Used all over Ethereum for a variety of things, a hexadecimal string is comprised of the numbers 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and letters A B C D E F.
hot wallet / hot storage
A wallet that is directly connected to the internet at all times; for example, one that is held on a centralized exchange. Hot wallets are considered to have lower security than cold storage systems or hardware wallets.
Hyperledger
Hyperledger is an ecosystem of open-system tools, libraries, and products designed to enable and support enterprise-grade blockchain technology. In general, the products focus on creating solutions for permissioned blockchains–that is, non-public blockchains, with alternative consensus mechanisms other than Proof of Work (PoW) or Proof of Stake (PoS).That said, there are use cases where such institutions would want to integrate with public blockchains, and for that reason Hyperledger Besu and Hyperledger Burrow are actively developed projects, the former being a Java-based Ethereum client, the latter being a smart contract platform which supports EVM bytecode.
I
Identicon / AddressIdenticon / AddressIcon
The colorful blob of colors that corresponds to your address in MetaMask. It is an easy way to see if your address is correct. More specifically, you can choose between jazzicons (created by the MetaMask team!) or blockies.
immutability
The inability to be altered or changed. This is a key element of blockchain networks: once written onto a blockchain ledger, data cannot be altered. This immutability provides the basis for commerce and trade to take place on blockchain networks.
Infura
Part of Consensys, Infura offers backend access to the Ethereum network over established HTTP and WebSockets technology. Prior to Infura, developers were obligated to run their own nodes of the networks with which they wanted to interact; Infura provides that access through a set of APIs. This enables developers of dapps and websites seeking to interact with the Ethereum blockchain to do so, and at scale.
ICO
An Initial Coin Offering (also called ICO) occurs when a new token project sells advance tokens in exchange for upfront capital. These have been a vehicle for fraud and scams, and as such are subject to ever-evolving regulation and legislation.
internal transaction
An internal transaction on the Ethereum network is one that occurs between smart contracts, rather than between addresses. Notably, they are not included on the blockchain, and therefore do not incur gas fees, but they are often crucial to carrying out the action in question, and can be viewed on Etherscan. For more detail, see MetaMask’s article on the topic.
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)
A decentralized file storage and referencing system for the Ethereum blockchain, and the internet as a whole. IFPS is an open source protocol that enables storing and sharing hypermedia (text, audio, visual) in a distributed manner without relying on a single point of failure. This distributed file system enables applications to run faster, safer and more transparently.
J
JSON-RPC
JSON-RPC is, quite simply, a method used to move data around computer systems, and predates public blockchain technology. It was chosen as a standard for moving data between blockchain networks and Internet browsers and wallets, with the result that these networks have come to be called ‘RPC networks’, despite JSON-RPC not being their defining technical feature.
K
keystore file
A keystore file is a special, encrypted version of a private key in JSON format. See also ‘private key’.
Know Your Customer (KYC)
A process in which a business must verify the identity and background information (address, financial details, etc.) of their customers. For example, current regulations and laws require banks and other financial institutions to keep and report customers’ personal information and transactions.
L
Layer 2
A Layer 2 network, or L2, is a blockchain that is built specifically to scale another network. For a full understanding of how this is achieved, see here. Some popular examples of this in the Ethereum ecosystem are Arbitrum, Optimism, and StarkNet. These chains are specifically built to handle a large number of transactions quickly by relying on Ethereum Mainnet for security functions, while optimizing for speed and scale. These networks are considered “scaling solutions” while not being part of Ethereum’s protocol-level scaling efforts. See also “blockchain trilemma”, “modular blockchain”, “Serenity”. Contrast with “sidechain”.
light client
In computing, a ‘client’ is a software that runs or accesses a program made available by a remote computer. With blockchain networks, then, clients are the programs that sync blockchain data and participate in network consensus.A light client downloads only a small part of the blockchain, allowing users of low-power or low-storage hardware like smartphones and laptops to maintain almost the same guarantee of security as a full node, despite only downloading part of the entire network state.
Liquid Democracy (Delegative Democracy)
A government system where votes can be delegated or proxied to other individuals such as friends, politicians, or subject matter experts. For example, in a liquid democracy, Bernadette could give Ahmad her vote and Ahmad would then vote for both himself and Bernadette. Liquid democracy is used at times as a governance mechanism for Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) wherein every participant is able to vote or delegate their vote to another individual.
liquidity
An asset is considered more ‘liquid’ if it can easily be converted into cash, and therefore, ‘liquidity’ refers to the availability of assets to a company or market. Conversely, the harder it is to turn an asset into cash, the more illiquid the asset. For example, stocks are considered relatively liquid assets, as they can be easily converted to cash while real estate is considered an illiquid asset. The liquidity of an asset affects its risk potential and market price.
M
mainnet
The primary network where actual transactions take place on a specific distributed ledger. For example, The Ethereum Mainnet (capitalized in this case) is the public blockchain where network validation and transactions take place.
market cap
Short for ‘market capitalization’, this refers to the total value held in a particular industry, market, company, or asset. For a publicly traded company, the market cap is the total dollar market value of a company’s outstanding shares. For Bitcoin or Ethereum, the total market cap is a reflection of the current existing supply times the market price.
Maximal Extractable Value (MEV)
Originally known as Miner Extractable Value, MEV is a broad complex topic that refers to the inclusion, exclusion, and reordering of transactions within a block in order to extract more value from it, generally in excess of what a validator (or miner, on PoW networks) would earn from producing the block. MEV includes activities such as frontrunning, arbitrage, and what could be considered malicious actions to profit off of other users’ transactions. This is a very active topic of research that is changing rapidly.
memory pool
Often abbreviated as “mempool”. See “transaction pool”.
Merge, the
Finalized in September 2022, the Merge was the culmination of years of work involved in transitioning Ethereum from a Proof of Work consensus model, to Proof of Stake, all while keeping the network live. This was successful, and reduced the network’s carbon footprint by more than 99.9%.
Merkle Patricia trie
Often referred to simply as a “Merkle trie” (pronounced “tree”), a Merkle Patricia trie is a data structure in which a single hash code function (see ‘hash’) splits into smaller branches. In a similar way to a family tree, where a parent branch splits into child branches, which are then extrapolated into grandchild branches, a Merkle Patricia trie keeps a record of the filiation and history of each element. This type of data structure enables for faster verification on a blockchain network.
Mesh
Consensys Mesh is a network of loosely coupled, tightly aligned teams, products, and investments advancing the Ethereum ecosystem and the arrival of web3.
MetaMask
MetaMask, either in its mobile app form on iOS and Android, or in its browser extension form, is a tool to access and interact with blockchains and the decentralized web. It allows users to manage their digital identity and the permission of others to interact with that identity; its functions include that of a wallet, a dapp permissions manager, and access to token swaps. It is an open-source project that encourages developers from other projects to build on top of it through MetaMask Snaps.
mining
The process by which blocks or transactions are verified and added to a blockchain using a Proof of Work (PoW) consensus mechanism. In order to verify a block, a miner must use a computer to solve a cryptographic problem. Once the computer has solved the problem, the block is considered “mined” or verified. On Bitcoin or other PoW blockchains, the first computer to mine or verify the block receives bitcoin, or the equivalent network token, as a reward.
mnemonic phrase
This is an alternative way of referring to a Secret Recovery Phrase, also known as a ‘seed phrase’: a series of words that correspond to a very long cryptographic key, used to generate and control all the addresses of a crypto wallet.
modular blockchain
Bitcoin is an example of a monolithic blockchain: all of the functions of the network (consensus, execution, data availability, and settlement) are run on one chain. This has significant drawbacks (see “blockchain trilemma” for more). A modular blockchain, on the other hand, separates some or all of these functions into separate chains, each one optimized for its specific function, and relying on the other chains for the other functions.Ethereum is currently moving towards modularization, both on a protocol level beginning with the Merge, which split consensus and execution into two chains, and at the level of “Layer 2” networks which provide optimized execution environments, and then “roll up” their data to Ethereum for its consensus functionality.
multi-signature wallet (multisig)
A crypto-asset wallet which requires multiple keys in order to access and transact. Typically, a specified number of individuals are required to approve or “sign” a transaction before they are able to access the wallet. This is different from most wallets, which only require one signature to approve a transaction.
N
node (full node)
Public blockchains consist of a network of computers which sync the network’s data, coordinate transaction requests, and participate in consensus regarding the validity of those transactions; each one of these computers is called a ‘node’. A full node is a computer that can fully validate transactions and download the entire data of a specific blockchain. In contrast, a “lightweight” or “light” node does not download all pieces of a blockchain’s data, and uses a different validation process.
NFT
When discussing Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), “fungibility” refers to an object’s ability to be exchanged for another. For example, an individual dollar is considered fungible, as one dollar is fully interchangeable with another. Artwork is usually deemed non-fungible, as paintings or sculptures are likely to be unequal between them in quality, value, or other attributes. A non-fungible token is a type of token that is a unique digital asset and has no equal token. This is in contrast to cryptocurrencies like ether that are fungible in nature.
NFT aggregator
In the initial wave of interest in buying and selling NFTs, a number of NFT marketplaces–websites where you can buy and sell NFTs–were created. As the market matured, aggregators appeared, which offer the user the ability to view available stock and price, buy, and sell across marketplaces from a single unified application. Similar to familiar web2 shopping portals, these have come to be known as NFT Marketplace Aggregators, or just NFT Aggregators.
nonce
The word ‘nonce’ has a few different meanings, and in different contexts, it ends up getting used a lot of different ways. Originally formed from a contraction of a phrase meaning “not more than once”, on the Ethereum Mainnet, “nonce” refers to a unique transaction identification number that increases in value with each successive transaction in order to ensure various safety features (such as preventing a double-spend). Note that due to its broader use in cryptography, you may encounter ‘nonce’ being used differently on other sidechains or decentralized projects.
O
ommer block
Under the Proof of Work (PoW) consensus mechanism, miners received rewards for being the first to mine a new block. However, at times a block would be mined just after, and in competition with, the last block. This block, known as an ommer and previously as an uncle, could get rolled into subsequent blocks and the miner of the original ommer would get a partial block reward. All of this functionality was deprecated as of the launch of the Beacon Chain.
on-ramp, off-ramp
Based on a metaphor from the American highway system, “on-ramp” refers to a tool, or a service provider, or the action, of converting fiat currency into tokens on a blockchain. Conversely, “off-ramp” refers to exchanging on-chain assets for their value in a given fiat currency. There are many providers of such services, and MetaMask users have access to them through the “Buy Crypto” feature.
optimistic rollup
A rollup that assumes the validity and good faith of transactions, and only runs a fraud proof in the case of fraud being alleged. See also ‘rollup’.
Oracle
Typically, an oracle is any entity or person that is relied on to report the outcome of an event. In a blockchain network an oracle (human or machine) helps communicate data to a smart contract, which can then be used to verify an event or specific outcome.
P
P2P (peer-to-peer)
P2P refers to interactions that happen directly between two parties, usually two separate individuals, and have been present in Internet technology in different ways for some time. These interactions are often coordinated through some sort of app or network, which can consist of any number of individuals. Public blockchains can be considered to have a high degree of P2P functionality, as individuals are able to transact or interact with each other without relying on an intermediary or single point of failure.
parity
In a general sense, to say that something ‘has parity’ with another thing means ‘equal in features or other important quality’, and is a phrase often used by software developers and computer scientists.Parity Technologies is the name of a blockchain technology company that is developing a number of significant projects in the blockchain space. One of its first projects was an Ethereum client, known as Parity; its name was changed to Parity Ethereum, and then was spun out as a DAO-owned and operated project called Open Ethereum, which has also been deprecated. See also ‘client’.
permissioned ledger
A blockchain network in which access to ledger or network requires permission from an individual or group of individuals, as opposed to a public blockchain. Permissioned ledgers may have one or many owners. Consensus on a permissioned ledger is conducted by the trusted actors, such as government departments, banks, or other known entities. Permissioned blockchains or ledgers contain highly-verifiable data sets because the consensus process creates a digital signature, which can be seen by all parties. A permissioned ledger is much easier to maintain and considerably faster than a public blockchain. For example, Quorum or Hyperledger Besu are permissioned ledgers that can be more easily set up for large enterprises. In contrast, the public Ethereum blockchain is a permissionless ledger which anyone can access.
Plasma
‘Plasma’ is a term that is used to refer to one of the solutions being built and deployed in order to securely scale the Ethereum network. A Plasma network functions similarly to an optimistic rollup, inasmuch as it relies on Ethereum Mainnet to maintain the record of transactions, and as the source for arbitration or fraud resolution. However, a Plasma network differs in other important technical ways from rollups, and is currently limited to simple operations, such as swaps and token transfers. More technical information is available here.
PoA, PoS, PoW
Acronyms standing for Proof of X consensus mechanisms: Authority, Stake, Work. The “o” is lowercase since you wouldn’t capitalize “of” when writing out the phrase. See also ‘consensus’, ‘Proof of Authority’, ‘Proof of Stake’, ‘Proof of Work’.
PoS/PoW Hybrid
A hybrid consensus model that utilizes a combination of Proof of Stake (PoS) and Proof of Work (PoW) consensus. Using this Hybrid consensus mechanism, blocks are validated from not only miners, but also voters (stakeholders) to form a balanced network governance.
private blockchain
A blockchain or distributed ledger that has a closed network wherein participants are controlled by a single entity. A private blockchain requires a verification process for new participants. A private blockchain may also limit which individuals are able to participate in consensus of the blockchain network. See also ‘permissioned ledger’.
private currency
A currency or token issued by a private individual or firm. Typically, the token or currency is limited to use within the network of that particular firm or individual. This is not to be confused with a “privacy cryptocurrency”, which are cryptocurrencies with specific privacy features, such as hidden user identities.
private key
A private key is an alphanumeric string of data that, in MetaMask, corresponds to a single specific account in a wallet. Private keys can be thought of as a password that enables an individual to control a specific crypto account. Never reveal your private key to anyone, as whoever controls the private key controls the account funds. If you lose your private key, then you lose access to, and control over, that account.
Proof of Authority (PoA)
A consensus mechanism used in private blockchains, granting a single private key the authority to generate all of the blocks or validate transactions.
Proof of Stake (PoS)
A consensus mechanism in which an individual node, or “validator”, validates transactions or blocks. Validators lock up a certain amount of cryptocurrency, such as ether, into a ‘stake’, in order to be able to participate in consensus. If the node validates a block (group of transactions) correctly, then the validator receives a reward. Conversely, if the validator behaves poorly by validating incorrect transactions or by not maintaining sufficient network connectivity, the cryptocurrency they staked can be ‘slashed’, or taken from them and put out of circulation (‘burned’). PoS requires a negligible amount of computing power compared to Proof of Work consensus.
Proof of Work (PoW)
A consensus mechanism in which each block is ‘mined’ by one of the nodes, or a group of nodes, on the network. The computational process involved in committing a series of transactions into a block on the network, known as ‘hashing a block’, is technically quite simple, and therefore subject to attack. Under PoW, each miner must solve a math problem to find a set, difficult variable in order to be able to propose their block to the network as the next to be ‘mined’. In effect, the process of hashing each block becomes a competition. This addition of solving for a target increases the difficulty of successfully hashing each block, and consequently the security of the network.For each hashed block, the overall process of hashing will have taken some time and computational effort. Thus, a hashed block is considered Proof of Work, and the miner that successfully hashes the block first receives a reward, in the form of cryptocurrency. PoW is singificantly more energy-intensive than other consensus mechanisms, such as Proof of Stake.
protocol
Formally speaking, a ‘protocol’ is a set of rules governing how a process is carried out. This concept is used throughout public blockchain networks and web3 to refer to the way smart contracts execute their functionality in the same way regardless of the user. The products or services built on top of smart contracts are often referred to as ‘protocols’ by extension.
public blockchain
A globally open network wherein anyone can participate in transactions, participate in the consensus protocol to help determine which blocks get added to the chain, maintain and examine the contents of the chain.
public key
Public blockchain networks are just that: public. Their data is accessible and readable by anyone. In order to have any degree of usability when it comes to allowing users to do some things, like send transactions, but not others, like steal other peoples’ tokens, cryptographic technology is used. In particular, a design paradigm known as ‘public/private key pairs’ is employed to ensure users can interact with others on the network as they wish, while keeping their own account secure.These key pairs consist of two long strings of alphanumeric characters. A public key can be derived mathematically from its corresponding private key, but the inverse is not true: it is mathematically impossible to derive a private key from its corresponding public key. This allows, for example, users to have a public wallet address that anyone can use to send them tokens, with the peace of mind that as long as they properly keep the corresponding private key safe, those tokens cannot be stolen. See also ‘private key’.
R
relayer
In the field of Decentralized Finance (DeFi), a relayer is any party or entity which hosts an off-chain orderbook. Relayers help traders discover counter-parties and cryptographically move orders between them. 0x is an example of a popular Ethereum relayer protocol.
rollups
Rollups (pronounced “roll ups”) are one element in the set of tools and infrastructure being built as scaling solutions for the Ethereum network. They consist, in general, of networks which prioritize their ability to compute transactions and smart contract functionality, and then ‘roll up’ those transactions to Ethereum Mainnet for secure verification of their validity. There are different ways of approaching this problem from a technical point of view, namely Zero Knowledge, or ZK, rollups, and Optimistic rollups. Arbitrum and Optimism are prominent examples. See the entries on both of these types of rollup for more, and more in-depth discussion here.
RPC
The Remote Procedure Call is a technology that is used to transfer data between endpoints. You may often see it referred to as JSON-RPC, which is its full name; see ‘JSON-RPC’ for further details.
rug pull
Similar to the traditional financial scam of a pyramid scheme, a ‘rug pull’ is a cryptocurrency or crypto-token based scam in which the creators of the token create hype, through injecting liquidity into their token, airdropping, and other schemes, and once investors pile in and boost the price of the token up to a certain point, the creators liquidate their (generally majority) share of the tokens, leaving their investors with next to nothing.
S
Satoshi Nakamoto
A pseudonymous individual or entity who created the Bitcoin protocol, solving the digital currency issue of the “double spend.” Nakamoto first published their white paper describing the project in 2008, and the first Bitcoin software was released one year later.
scalability
A change in size or scale to handle a network’s demands. This word is used to refer to a blockchain project’s ability to handle network traffic, future growth, and capacity in its intended application.
Seed (phrase) / Secret Recovery Phrase
The seed phrase, mnemonic, or Secret Recovery Phrase is a crucial part of public blockchain technology, originally created for Bitcoin, and goes by many names. However, they all refer to a set of ordered words which correspond to determined values. These values never change, and therefore the same string of words in the same order will always produce the same number–this is the underlying functionality that allows seed phrases to back up wallets. This is also where the name ‘hierarchical deterministic wallets’ comes from, as all the accounts in a given wallet are deterministically created from the seed phrase, and they are hierarchically controlled by it.A Secret Recovery Phrase is exactly what it sounds like: something that is secret, and should be known only to the owner of the account. If the seed phrase is given to someone else, that person has complete control over the account; they can drain it of tokens and funds, execute transactions with it, etc.
self-executing
Functioning by itself, not controlled by any other party other than itself. Self-executing smart contracts cut costs and overhead by removing the need for an arbitrator and trust toward a third party. See also ‘protocol’.
Serenity
The Ethereum network is working on a series of technical upgrades that will allow massive increases in transaction throughput, amongst other things. The plan that outlined these changes was originally referred to as ‘Serenity’, although that name has become less popular, in favor of specific descriptions of the upgrades themselves.
serialization
The process of converting a data structure into a sequence of bytes. Ethereum internally uses an encoding format called recursive-length prefix encoding (RLP).
sharding
Sharding, in public blockchains, refers to splitting an entire network into multiple portions, called “shards.” Each shard would contain its own independent state, meaning a unique set of account balances and smart contracts. Sharding is currently being investigated and developed as one of the set of tools and solutions for scaling Ethereum.
sidechains
A ‘sidechain’ refers to a chain that is connected to another (most often, to Ethereum) through a bridge, allowing assets to be transferred between them. In contrast to a Layer 2 network or a rollup, a sidechain is a full blockchain network in and of itself, and does not rely on Ethereum for consensus. It therefore must be evaluated independently in terms of its security, stability, and other features. See also “blockchain trilemma”, “modular blockchain”.Note: Bridges exist for good reason; sending tokens from a sidechain to Ethereum mainnet or vice versa would result in token loss.
slashing condition
Under a Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism, a slashing condition is one that causes the validator’s deposit to be destroyed when they trigger it. See also ‘Proof of Stake’.
slot
A slot, under Ethereum Proof of Stake consensus, is a 12-second period of time during which a new block may (or may not) be proposed. Every 32 slots comprise an epoch. See also ‘epoch’.
smart contracts
Smart contracts are programs that have been published on a public blockchain, and can be used by anyone. While they often contain agreements or sets of actions between parties that emulate a traditional legal contract, they are not, in and of themselves, legal documents. Smart contracts are automated actions that can be coded and executed once a set of conditions is met, and are the dominant form of programming on the Ethereum Virtual Machine.
soft fork
A change to the blockchain protocol resulting in only previously valid blocks and transactions being made invalid. Since old nodes will recognize the new blocks as valid, a soft fork is backward-compatible. However, this can result in a potential divide in the blockchain, as the old software generates blocks that read as invalid according to the new rules. Contrast with ‘hard fork’; for more basic information regarding forks, see ‘fork’.
Solidity
The programming language developers use to write smart contracts on the Ethereum network. Try it out on Remix. See also ‘smart contract’.
stablecoin
A cryptocurrency whose value has been ‘pegged’ to that of something considered a ‘stable’ asset, like fiat currency or gold. It theoretically remains stable in price, as it is measured against a known amount of an asset which should be less subject to fluctuation. Always spelled as one word.
staking
On the Ethereum Proof of Stake network, those wishing to participate in consensus must first lock up, or ‘stake’, 32 ETH into a smart contract; this ETH may be ‘slashed’ (taken from them and ‘burned’, put out of circulation) in the event that their validator behaves maliciously or does not meet performance requirements. Similar Proof of Stake mechanisms are in operation on other networks, as well.Although this is the canonical meaning of the word, similar actions taken at the level of a decentralized exchange (DEX) or another dapp are often called ‘staking’, though it would probably be more accurate and descriptive to just call this ‘locking up tokens’.
state
The set of data that a blockchain network strictly needs to keep track of, and that represents data currently relevant to applications on the chain.
state channels
State channels are part of the set of tools and platforms involved in scaling Ethereum. While a complex topic, state channels are essentially methods through which the current ‘state’ of the blockchain can be exported, and then based on that, any given number of transactions can take place off-chain, and then be moved back onto the main Ethereum chain.
swap
As the number of different blockchain projects and tokens has proliferated, the system by which users exchange one token for another has come to be known as swapping, and the individual action, a swap. Within MetaMask, users have access to a powerful aggregator showing them information about swaps across the ecosystem, this is MetaMask Swaps.
szabo
A denomination of ETH. See also ‘ether (denominations)’.
T
testnet
A testnet is a blockchain network that mirrors, as closely as possible, the current conditions of a corresponding ‘main’ network. Testnets are used by developers to verify that their smart contracts and other functionality work as intended, before permanently recording their code to a live blockchain network (and often spending significant gas fees in the process!).Tokens minted on testnets are not transferrable for their equivalent value on mainnets.
Testnet Kovan
An Ethereum testnet that uses Proof of Authority consensus, available through MetaMask; website here.
Testnet Rinkeby
An Ethereum testnet that uses Proof of Authority consensus, available through MetaMask; faucet here. Following the transition to Proof of Stake, Rinkeby scheduled its deprecation for the end of 2023.
Testnet Ropsten
An Ethereum testnet that used Proof of Work, and, following the transition to Proof of Stake, was deprecated.
token
A token represents an asset issued on an existing blockchain; the transfer of tokens and the addresses that currently hold them are the subject of the network’s consensus activities. There are many types of tokens; see also ‘ERC-20’ and ‘ERC-721’ entries.
Total Value Locked (TVL)
Total Value Locked, or TVL, is a common expression used in many contexts across the crypto ecosystem, so it’s important to pay attention to the specifics. In general, it refers to how much value, in tokens, has been deposited into something.Most often, it refers to a protocol, which is an application on the blockchain, or a set of protocols. For example, a decentralized token trading platform might have a series of liquidity pools, which are protocols enabling swaps between tokens, and the platform may quote the “TVL” for all the pools combined. Alternatively, if a network uses proof of stake for their consensus mechanism, they may represent the TVL of all the tokens staked into that consensus protocol.
transaction block
A collection of transactions on a blockchain network, gathered into a set or a block that can then be hashed and added to the blockchain. See ‘hash’.
transaction fee
A small fee imposed on transactions sent across a blockchain network. These fees are used to pay network validators or miners for their participation in consensus, and thus ensure that a blockchain network is self-sustaining.
transaction pool
When a user submits a transaction to the Ethereum network–or many other networks based on Ethereum–the transaction goes into what’s known as a “transaction pool”, or “txpool” for short. This is essentially a queue of transactions that are waiting to be added to a block and recorded to the blockchain. There are mechanisms that determine which transactions are “picked up” and included in the next block, and there is currently a lot of research surrounding how this decision gets made (see “MEV”). In Bitcoin, the transaction pool was referred to as the “memory pool”, or “mempool”, and often these terms are used interchangeably.
trustless
‘Trustless’ is a term that gets used a lot in the decentralized web, and it deserves some explanation.Traditionally, to call something ‘trustless’ would sound like a negative thing. In the context of decentralized technology, it has a more technical meaning: since everyone has a copy of the ledger of all transactions ever executed, there is no need for a centralized entity that ‘must be trusted’ as the source of truth. With public blockchain networks, data isn’t kept on some centralized server somewhere that could be hacked or changed arbitrarily; anyone can verify the transactions themselves. This is why the term ‘trustless’ was coined: there is no need for trust, although, in a way, the rules and assurances built into the blockchain provide the basis for greater trust between people, because the system is guaranteed to work the same for everyone.
Turing-complete
Any machine that can calculate on a level equal to a programmable computer is Turing-complete, or computationally universal. The Ethereum Virtual Machine, which processes smart contracts and transactions, is Turing-complete, despite not existing on a single physical computer.
V
validator
A participant in Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus. On Ethereum’s Proof of Stake network, validators need to stake 32 ETH in order to get included in the validator set. See also ‘staking’.
validity proof
The proof submitted along with certain types of rollups to prove that the transactions are valid. See also ‘rollups’.
Validium
One of the technologies developed for scaling of the Ethereum network; see more here.
W
Wallet
In Ethereum-based blockchain technology, a ‘wallet’ is a something that allows you to manage private keys, your Secret Recovery Phrase, and the accounts generated from it. This could be an internet-connected ‘hot wallet’, like MetaMask, or an ‘airgapped’ hardware wallet. In more technical speak, you could say “the wallet is the client, not the keys.”It is very common for people to use the word ‘wallet’ to refer to their SRP itself, or the accounts generated from it, or even to one account.
web3 / Web 3.0
Web3, or Web 3.0, are terms used synonymously with “the decentralized web” and are often used to refer, broadly, to the blockchain and decentralized technology ecosystems and communities as a whole.
Z
zk-SNARKs
Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-interactive ARguments of Knowledge are an incredible technology, and vital to the scaling of blockchain technology and the decentralized web. They are mathematically complex and can be daunting; this explanation from the Ethereum Foundation is a good primer.
zero address
The Zero Address is an address on the Ethereum network that is the recipient of a special transaction used to register the creation of a new smart contract on the network.
#
51% Attack
If more than half the computer power or mining hash rate on a network is run by a single person or a single group of people, then a 51% attack is in operation. This means that this entity has full control of the network and can negatively affect a cryptocurrency by taking over mining operations, stopping or changing transactions, and double-spending coins.








Merkle Proof

A Merkle proof allows for efficient and secure data verification in blockchain without requiring full access to the entire data structure.
False Breakout

A false breakout is common in volatile markets like cryptocurrencies, where the price of a digital asset can move beyond a significant support or resistance level (breaking out), only to quickly reverse and move back within the previous trading range.
Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT)

In Modern Portfolio Theory, traders aim to achieve an optimal mix of assets that balances the potential for high returns with acceptable levels of risk despite the inherent volatility of the cryptocurrency market.
Leverage

Leverage can help to increase the potential return on investment for cryptocurrency traders by allowing them to open positions larger than their actual capital by borrowing funds.
Anti-Phishing Code

An Anti-Phishing Code is a security feature to help protect from phishing attacks, where users can verify the authenticity of communications they receive, particularly via email.
Derivatives

Cryptocurrency derivatives are financial contracts derived from the price of an underlying digital asset that allow traders to speculate on the future price movements of cryptocurrencies without actually owning the underlying assets.
Fraud Proof

Fraud proofs are an essential security mechanism that ensures trust in scalable blockchain solutions by detecting and penalising dishonest or erroneous activity without needing to immediately check every transaction.
Fear & Greed Index

The Fear & Greed Index provides insights for traders looking to time the market, offering a sense of whether conditions might be ripe for a correction or a potential rally.
Federated BFT (fBFT)

Federated Byzantine Fault Tolerance (fBFT) is a consensus mechanism that enhances the scalability, speed, and security of blockchain networks by using a trusted set of federated nodes to validate transactions while maintaining fault tolerance against malicious behaviour.
Taker Fee

A taker fee is the cost incurred by traders who execute orders that are immediately matched, removing liquidity from the order book.







Altcoin. Refers to any cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin, and there are thousands.
Bitcoin. First introduced in late 2008, it is a specific currency in an electronic payment system that acts as an alternative to fiat currency. It exists only on computers and the internet. It is not backed by a government, and its price is not set by a centralized authority.
Blockchain. A permanent online ledger that functions as a public accounting of cybercurrency transactions that have been executed. New “blocks” are added to the blockchain after the confirmation of each set of transactions.
Blockchain technology. Enables the electronic payment system for virtual currencies, but not tied to any specific currency. Companies are using blockchains to create a permanent record of transactions of such things as sales of investments, corporate records, and legal documents.
Cryptocurrency. A digital currency secured through cryptography, or codes that can't be read without a key.
Crypto-marketing. A scheme in which promoters of securities tied to cryptocurrencies recruit investors to pitch the investments, often to friends and family and through social media and blogs. In return, these investors are promised a generous return plus the promise of commissions on their sales. 
Digital wallet. A software application, or other mechanism, that provides a means for holding, storing, and transferring digital currency. A wallet holds the user’s digital currency addresses, which allow the user to receive digital currency, and private keys, which allow the user to transfer digital currency. The wallet also maintains the user’s digital currency balance. A wallet provider is an individual or entity that provides the software to create and manage wallets, which users can download. 
Fiat currency.  A fiat currency — such as dollars, euros, pounds, or yen—is a trusted medium of exchange, or legal tender, that is issued by a recognized government or authority. U.S. dollars, for example, are backed by the “full faith and credit” of the United States government.
Initial Coin Offering. In an ICO, an entity issues virtual coins, often called tokens, to raise capital. A “token sale” is simply distributing a new cryptocurrency to investors,  who typically pay for the tokens in bitcoin or another established cryptocurrency.
Mining. The process of applying high amounts of computing power to solve complex equations that verify transactions in a virtual currency. Miners who solve the equations are awarded new units of the virtual currency.
Private key.  Accessing the bitcoins in a digital wallet requires a private key—an alpha-numeric code of at least 16 characters (punctuation marks are encouraged!) that is far more comprehensive than a PIN. The private key, which should be kept entirely secure, enables you spend the bitcoins allocated to your account.
Public key. A cryptographic code that allows a person to receive cryptocurrencies into his or her account. The public key is derived from the private key. In the Bitcoin system, transactions are done using a "pair" of a private and public key.
Satoshi Nakamoto.  A pseudonym for an individual or group that introduced Bitcoin in late 2008 in a white paper published via a mailing list for cryptography. To facilitate transactions, bitcoins can be divided into miniscule units. For example, there are units as tiny as a millionth of bitcoin, or even a hundred-millionth of a bitcoin, which is called a satoshi.
Virtual currencies. Like fiat currency, virtual currencies such as Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ether are intended as a medium of exchange that enables two parties to transact business. But there are important differences:
No physical coins or bills. Virtual currencies exist only in computer code. Except for visual representation of Bitcoin and altcoins in advertising and displays, and coin-like tokens that may be produced for marketing purposes, there are no actual coins or bills.
Not legal tender. Virtual currencies are not legal tender and are not issued or backed by a government. However, many virtual currencies, which are called convertible virtual currencies, can be redeemed for fiat currency on a number of exchanges.
No regulation. Virtual currencies are not regulated by any government agency or authority. However, regulation is being considered, especially where virtual currencies function as securities when they’re used to raise capital and when traded on exchanges.
No intermediaries. Unlike fiat, virtual currency transactions are conducted directly between two parties, on a peer-to-peer basis, using a decentralized computer network that involves no banks or other intermediaries. Trust in the system is based on digital proof, or the ability of users to access a permanent record of all of the transactions that have taken place.
Whitepaper. A startup or established company publishes a whitepaper to tell potential investors about its ICO, or Initial Coin Offering — the technical details, objectives of the product, information about the team behind the company, and other details.


24H Change
24H Change, which is short for ‘24-Hour Change’, shows the percentage price difference of a cryptocurrency or non-fungible token (NFT) in the market over a 24-hour time frame.
24H Volume
24H Volume shows the number of a cryptocurrency’s tokens traded over a 24-hour time frame.
51% Attack
A 51% attack happens when an individual or group with malicious intent controls more than 50% of a network’s mining hashrate.
7D
7D, short for seven days, refers to price data that has been collected for a cryptocurrency over a 7-day period.
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is a widely used encryption algorithm established by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in 2001 and designed to secure sensitive data.
Airdrop
An airdrop is the distribution of cryptocurrency tokens or coins, usually unsolicited and for free, to multiple wallet addresses.
All-Time High (ATH)
Short for ‘all-time high’, ATH refers to the historically highest price in market capitalisation of an asset.
Alpha
Crypto 'alpha' refers to a piece of information that is new or not common knowledge and has the potential to give a trader an edge in the market. In some circles, it is also a metric that measures how successful an investment is in outperforming the market.
Altcoin
Any cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin is referred to as an altcoin.
Anti-Money Laundering (AML)
Anti-money laundering (AML) refers to the procedures, laws, regulations, and any other tools intended to prevent money laundering.
Anti-Phishing Code
An Anti-Phishing Code is a security feature to help protect from phishing attacks, where users can verify the authenticity of communications they receive, particularly via email.
Apeing
Apeing is an internet slang term referring to traders who buy a token shortly after its launch or after discovering it without doing any firsthand or in-depth research.
Application Programming Interface (API)
API, short for Application Programming Interface, is a way for computer or software applications to communicate with each other.
Arbitrage
Arbitrage is a trading strategy in which a digital asset is bought in one market and sold in another to exploit the price difference for a profit.
Ascending Wedge
An ascending wedge is a bearish chart pattern characterised by two converging trendlines that slope upwards.
Asynchronous Byzantine Fault Tolerance (ABFT)
Asynchronous Byzantine Fault Tolerance (ABFT) allows honest nodes in a network to agree on the timing and order of transactions.
Automated Market Maker (AMM)
Automated Market Makers (AMMs) are a way to provide liquidity to a cryptocurrency exchange via automated trading.
Average Price (7D)
Average Price (7D) shows the average price paid for non-fungible tokens (NFTs) in a collection over a seven-day period.
Backward Compatibility
Backward compatibility is the ability of a new version or update of a blockchain protocol or software to interact seamlessly with older versions of the same protocol.
Bagholder
Bagholders are individuals who do not sell their assets, even if the price significantly drops or ends up at zero.
Bank Run
A bank run occurs when many customers withdraw their funds from a bank due to concerns about the bank's insolvency or bankruptcy.
Bear Market
A cryptocurrency bear market describes when the market experiences a decline of at least 20% from recent highs.
Bear Trap
A bear trap is a term that defines a group of traders or an individual who tries to manipulate a cryptocurrency’s price.
BEP-20
BEP-20 is a token standard for the BNB Smart Chain.
Biometric Authentication
Biometric authentication uses forms like fingerprints, facial/voice recognition, or iris scans to verify the identity of users.
Bitcoin
Bitcoin is the first decentralised digital currency, created by an unknown person or group of people using the name Satoshi Nakamoto.
Bitcoin ETF
Bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETFs) track the value of Bitcoin, providing traders with an opportunity to gain exposure to Bitcoin through traditional stock market exchanges.
Bitcoin Halving
Bitcoin halving occurs when the rewards for mining new blocks are halved after every 210,000 blocks of verified transactions.
Bitcoin Pizza
Bitcoin Pizza refers to the well-known Bitcoin transaction in 2010 involving the purchase of two pizzas for 10,000 BTC.
Block
A block in a blockchain is a dataset that contains transactions and other important information.
Block Producer
A block producer is an entity responsible for generating and validating new blocks in a blockchain network.
Block Reward
A block reward is a form of incentive provided to miners or validators for successfully adding a new block to the blockchain.
Blockchain
Blockchain is a decentralised and immutable digital ledger that is distributed across an entire peer-to-peer (P2P) network using cryptography.
Blockchain Oracle
Oracles allow blockchains to connect to things externally, allowing smart contracts to interact and make decisions based on inputs and outputs from the real world.
Blockchain Trilemma
The blockchain trilemma refers to a common problem that all networks currently face, where they can only optimally provide two out of the following three benefits: decentralisation, scalability, and security.
Bollinger Band
A Bollinger Band is an indicator used in technical analysis that tracks an asset and gives traders insight into whether it is oversold or overbought.
Bonding
Bonding is the act of a user locking their digital assets to someone else’s validator node for it to begin working.
BRC-20
BRC-20 is a fungible token standard for the Bitcoin blockchain, enabling developers to create and transfer fungible tokens using the Ordinals protocol.
Breakout
In cryptocurrency trading, a breakout occurs when the price of a digital asset moves above a specific resistance level or below a support level with increased volume.
Bridge
Bridges are points that allow users to move between two different blockchains. They can be either centralised or decentralised.
BTFD
In the crypto community, ‘BTFD’ is short for ‘Buy the f------ dip’, a common term used by supporters of a particular asset or the crypto market in general. It (emphatically) means to take advantage of a recent market downtrend and buy.
Bull Market
A bull market is the state of a financial market in which asset prices are rising or expected to rise.
Bull Trap
A bull trap refers to a situation that occurs on a cryptocurrency's chart, showcasing its price declining before appearing to reverse until ultimately ending up falling further downwards.
Burn
Burning refers to the removal of cryptocurrency tokens from circulation, thus reducing a token’s total circulating supply.
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT)
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) is the ability of a computer to continue operating in the event of a node failure or malicious attack.
Byzantine Generals Problem
The Byzantine Generals Problem is a challenge that arises when trying to maintain security and consensus on a distributed network.
Calldata
Calldata is an essential component for passing inputs to smart contract functions, optimising for cost by being temporary and non-modifiable during execution.
Candidate Block
A candidate block refers to a block that has been proposed by a participant in a blockchain network and is undergoing verification before being added to the blockchain.
Candlesticks
Candlesticks are a method of displaying an asset's high, low, open, and closing prices in a specific time period.
Centralised
A centralised system is the concentration of power and authority under a single entity or small group.
Centralised Exchange (CEX)
A centralised exchange (CEX) is a type of cryptocurrency exchange that a company centrally runs and controls.
Cipher
A cipher is an algorithm used to encrypt or decrypt information.
Ciphertext
Ciphertext, or encrypted text, is a term used in cryptography to describe the encrypted form of a message.
Circulating Supply
Circulating supply is the amount of a cryptocurrency currently on the market. The number can grow or shrink for various reasons.
Close Price
The close price is the price an asset last trades at within a given time period, which can be defined freely but is most commonly set at one day.
Coin
A cryptocurrency coin represents a store of value native to a blockchain. All coins are considered tokens, but not all tokens are considered cryptocurrency coins.
Cold Wallet
A cold wallet is an offline wallet used to store cryptocurrencies.
Collateral
Collateral refers to assets pledged in order to obtain a loan. A lender requires collateral in order to reduce the risk of a borrower not paying them back.
Collateralisation
Collateralisation refers to the practise of using one asset as insurance in order to borrow another asset or secure a loan.
Collection Value
Collection Value is the aggregated monetary value of all the NFTs in a collection.
Composability
Composability is combining or linking different decentralised finance (DeFi) protocols and applications.
Confirmation Bias
Confirmation bias is a psychological phenomenon where individuals subconsciously tend to favour information that proves them right and disregard information that does not.
Confirmation Time
Confirmation time refers to the amount of time it takes for a transaction to be verified and added to the blockchain.
Consensus
Consensus is how a blockchain achieves agreement in a decentralised peer-to-peer (P2P) network.
Consensus Mechanism
A consensus mechanism represents the rules that govern the block verification process on a blockchain.
Consortium Blockchain
A consortium blockchain is privately owned and managed by a group of corporations, where a consortium can share information privately while having the security and immutable benefits of a blockchain.
Cross-Chain
Cross-chain typically refers to technology that allows for interoperability between blockchains.
Crypto Asset
Crypto assets are transferable digital representations of value made possible by cryptography and blockchain technology.
Crypto Debit Card
A crypto debit card is a payment card funded with cryptocurrency and used for everyday transactions, such as purchasing goods and services.
Cryptocurrency
Cryptocurrency is a peer-to-peer (P2P) digital payment system that relies on cryptography and blockchain technology to verify transactions and maintain security.
Cryptocurrency Exchange
A cryptocurrency exchange, also known as a digital currency exchange, is a platform that facilitates the trading of cryptocurrencies.
Cryptocurrency Wallet
A cryptocurrency wallet is a software programme or device that stores a user’s public and private keys.
Cryptographic Hash Function
A cryptographic hash function is an equation that verifies the validity of data.
Cryptographic Key
A cryptographic key is a series of symbols used in an algorithm to encrypt or decrypt text.
Cryptographic Proof
Cryptographic proof refers to cryptographic techniques to verify the authenticity, integrity, and validity of data and transactions.
Cryptography
Cryptography is keeping information secure from malicious actors by transforming an original text into something only the intended reader can understand.
CryptoPunks
CryptoPunks is a generative art collection of over 10,000 ‘punks’ as non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the Ethereum blockchain.
Cup and Handle
In relation to price charts, a ‘cup and handle’ is a bullish technical indicator that looks like a cup with a handle on the right side when viewed on the charts.
Custodial Wallet
A custodial wallet is held by an entity, such as a centralised exchange (CEX), and the user does not hold their assets’ private keys, as the service provider is in charge of holding the user's wallet.
Customer Due Diligence (CDD)
Customer Due Diligence (CDD) assesses and verifies the identity of customers, which aims to mitigate the risk of financial crime and ensure the integrity of the cryptocurrency ecosystem.
Cypherpunk
The cypherpunk movement played a foundational role in the development of digital currencies like Bitcoin and focused on using cryptography and privacy-enhancing technologies to promote individual freedom, privacy, and political independence.
Dead Cat Bounce
A dead cat bounce is a market trend where an asset with a falling price may have a slight recovery for a brief period of time before continuing to drop further.
Death Cross
A death cross signals a long-term bear market moving forward.
Decentralisation
Decentralisation refers to a system that has no central point of authority. It is a body of multiple entities that conducts decision-making processes without a central point.
Decentralised Applications (Dapps)
Decentralised applications (dapps) are applications or programmes that operate on a blockchain or peer-to-peer (P2P) network.
Decentralised Autonomous Organisation (DAO)
A decentralised autonomous organisation (DAO) is an entity designed to be fully autonomous and without a central point of control.
Decentralised Exchange (DEX)
A decentralised exchange (DEX) is a cryptocurrency exchange not handled in a centralised manner, as it acts in a non-custodial and anonymous way to swap cryptocurrencies.
Decentralised Finance (DeFi)
DeFi is an abbreviation of ‘decentralised finance’, which is software built on top of a blockchain that enables the creation of services much like traditional centralised financial services, with the added benefit of decentralisation.
Decryption
In blockchain technology, decryption is crucial for protecting and securing data and transactions from unauthorised access, allowing for authorised parties to access and read original information (plaintext).
Deflation
Deflation — the opposite of inflation — is a decline in prices of goods and services.
Degen
‘Degen’ is a slang term derived from the word ‘degenerate’, often used in the cryptocurrency space to refer to individuals who engage in high-risk and speculative trading.
Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS)
Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) is a consensus mechanism that evolved from Proof of Stake (PoS). It allows users of a network to vote in delegates who then validate blocks.
Derivatives
Cryptocurrency derivatives are financial contracts derived from the price of an underlying digital asset that allow traders to speculate on the future price movements of cryptocurrencies without actually owning the underlying assets.
Descending Triangle
A descending triangle is a bearish chart pattern observed in technical analysis of financial markets, including cryptocurrency markets.
Descending Wedge
A descending wedge is a bullish chart pattern that indicates a potential price reversal or continuation.
DevP2P
DevP2P plays a vital role in enabling the peer-to-peer (P2P) architecture of blockchain networks, promoting decentralisation and efficient communication amongst network participants.
DEX Aggregator
A decentralised exchange (DEX) aggregator is a platform or service that simultaneously sources from multiple DEXs in order to achieve the best possible trading prices and liquidity.
Diamond Hands
Diamond hands is a slang term for a market participant who refrains from selling an asset despite downturns or losses.
Digital Asset
A digital asset is any form of electronic data that has economic value, including cryptocurrencies, tokens, securities, art and collectibles, data, and intellectual property.
Digital Signature
A digital signature is a cryptographic technique to validate the authenticity of digital messages and documents.
Dip
A ‘dip’ refers to a decline in the price of an asset.
Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)
A directed acyclic graph (DAG) is a type of structure commonly found as a form of consensus for a cryptocurrency.
Distributed Ledger
A distributed ledger in cryptocurrency is a secure, decentralised system for recording and maintaining transactions, providing an immutable history through various consensus mechanisms.
Distributed Ledger Technology
Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) enables multiple participants to have a synchronised copy of a constantly updated digital ledger. Blockchain is a type of DLT.
Double Bottom
A double bottom is a bullish technical indicator pattern that identifies a potential reversal in a downward trend, where it forms when an asset price reaches a low two times in a row with a moderate increase between the two lows.
Double Top
A bearish technical indicator, a double top forms when an asset price reaches a high price two consecutive times with a moderate decline between the two highs.
Double-Spending
Double-spending is the event in which a unit of an asset is spent more than once.
Dump
Dump is a term referring to the sudden price drop of a specific asset or downward market movement.
DYOR
DYOR means ‘do your own research’ and due diligence before committing to any project.
EIP
EIP stands for Ethereum Improvement Proposal, which are motions that propose different features, changes, or processes to Ethereum.
Encryption
Encryption — the process of converting data or information into a secure and encoded format — plays a crucial role in ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and security within blockchain networks and cryptocurrency transactions.
ERC
ERC stands for Ethereum Request for Comment. It provides application-level standards for the Ethereum blockchain.
ERC-1155
Created by Enjin, ERC-1155 aims to be a more secure token standard compared to older ones.
ERC-20
The ERC-20 token standard defines how a token should function on the Ethereum blockchain. It has become the most widely adopted token standard in the Ethereum ecosystem.
ERC-223
ERC-223 is a token standard on the Ethereum blockchain aimed at expanding upon the ERC-20 token standard.
ERC-721
ERC-721 is a token standard representing ownership of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on Ethereum.
ERC-777
ERC-777 is a token standard that aims to improve on the existing ERC-20 standard.
ERC-827
ERC-827 is an Ethereum token standard used as an extension of the ERC-20 token standard. It aims to add more functionality to transfer tokens.
ERC-884
ERC-884 is a token standard that allows for the creation of ERC-20 tokens.
ERC-948
ERC-948 is an Ethereum protocol to connect subscription-model businesses with their customers.
ETH
ETH is the ticker symbol for Ether, which is the native cryptocurrency of the Ethereum platform.
Ethereum
Ethereum is a decentralised, open-source blockchain platform introduced in 2015 by Vitalik Buterin. It is the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalisation.
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) is a platform for executing dapps and smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain.
Exchange
A cryptocurrency exchange, also known as a digital currency exchange, is a platform that facilitates the trading of cryptocurrencies.
Exchange-Traded Fund (ETF)
Exchange-traded funds (ETFs) track the performance of an underlying asset and offer diversified exposure to various assets, providing better accessibility, transparency, and cost-efficiency for traders.
Exit Liquidity
Exit liquidity is the ease with which a trader can exit their position and cash out their cryptocurrency assets. Traders can become someone’s exit liquidity when they trade their money for an asset without the ability to resell it due to various reasons.
Exit Strategy
Crucial for managing risk and securing profits, an exit strategy is a plan for selling or liquidating a position in a cryptocurrency to achieve the best possible financial outcome.
False Breakout
A false breakout is common in volatile markets like cryptocurrencies, where the price of a digital asset can move beyond a significant support or resistance level (breaking out), only to quickly reverse and move back within the previous trading range.
Faucet
A faucet is a tool in the cryptocurrency space that can either be used as a reward system to compensate cryptocurrency users for completing specific tasks or to help onboard new users to an ecosystem.
Fear & Greed Index
The Fear & Greed Index provides insights for traders looking to time the market, offering a sense of whether conditions might be ripe for a correction or a potential rally.
Federated BFT (fBFT)
Federated Byzantine Fault Tolerance (fBFT) is a consensus mechanism that enhances the scalability, speed, and security of blockchain networks by using a trusted set of federated nodes to validate transactions while maintaining fault tolerance against malicious behaviour.
Fiat
Fiat money is a form of currency backed solely by the government or central bank that issued it.
Fibonacci Retracement
Fibonacci retracement is a popular technical analysis tool that helps traders identify potential levels of support and resistance likely to occur.
Floor Price
Floor Price is equal to the lowest-priced NFT in a collection.
FOMO
FOMO is an acronym that stands for ‘fear of missing out’.
Forks
A fork is when a project or blockchain is split, creating two blockchains that run simultaneously alongside each other.
Fraud Proof
Fraud proofs are an essential security mechanism that ensures trust in scalable blockchain solutions by detecting and penalising dishonest or erroneous activity without needing to immediately check every transaction.
Froth
‘Froth’ refers to a period when asset prices, such as cryptocurrencies, rise rapidly and beyond their intrinsic value, driven more by hype and speculation than by fundamental factors.
FUD
A strategy to mislead people on a certain project, FUD stands for ‘fear, uncertainty, and doubt’ and is the act of spreading misleading or false information about a project to negatively impact it.
Fully Diluted Valuation (FDV)
Fully diluted valuation (FDV) is a metric used to estimate the total value of a cryptocurrency or token if all of its possible supply were in circulation.
Fungible
Fungible refers to the interchangeability of an identical coin or token.
GameFi
GameFi combines gaming and finance in cryptocurrency, where game mechanics create a virtual environment in which players may participate and receive tokens.
Gas (ETH)
Gas is the cost of a transaction on the Ethereum network.
GM
GM stands for ‘good morning’ and is commonly used in the crypto community as a positive sentiment.
Golden Cross
A golden cross indicates a long-term bull market moving forward.
Governance
Governance is the method by which people and entities make decisions for a cryptocurrency project.
Governance Token
A governance token is a form of utility token representing governance rights within a blockchain ecosystem, decentralised app (dapp), or decentralised finance (DeFi) protocol.
Graphics Processing Unit (GPU)
Commonly referred to as graphics cards or GPUs, a Graphics Processing Unit is a computer chip used in computers to create 3D images.
Gwei
Gwei is a denomination of Ethereum, representing a fraction of Ether. 1 Ether (ETH) is equal to 1 billion Gwei.
Hal Finney
Hal Finney was a pioneering figure in the world of cryptocurrency and is considered one of the most important early contributors to Bitcoin. His work has had a lasting impact on the development and adoption of cryptocurrencies.
Halving Event
A halving event is aimed at reducing inflation by lowering the amount of new coins created and cutting mining rewards in half.
Hardware Wallet
A hardware wallet is an offline physical cryptocurrency wallet.
Hash
In blockchain, a hash is the result of a cryptographic function that takes an input and produces a fixed-size string of characters.
Hashing
Hashing is an algorithm that inputs data into a fixed-size string, thus encrypting and securing it.
Hashrate
In blockchain technology, a hashrate refers to the speed at which a computer can perform operations in the hashing algorithm.
Hedging
Hedging refers to strategies that aim to reduce the risk of adverse price movement in an existing position.
Herd Behaviour
Herd behaviour is a psychological phenomenon that occurs when market participants ‘follow the herd’ in their dealings, making decisions that are influenced by the collective decisions of other traders.
High-Frequency Trading (HFT)
High-frequency trading (HFT) is a type of trading that involves high-speed trade execution.
HODL
HODL is a crypto slang term used to represent a style of investing. It stands for ‘Hold on for dear life’, meaning to hold onto investments for a long period of time, through both bull and bear markets.
Honeypot
Honeypot scams are deceptive schemes that lure unsuspecting victims with the promise of lucrative rewards.
Hooks
In the context of blockchain, ‘hooks’ typically refer to pieces of code that allow developers to customise the behaviour of a blockchain protocol.
Hot Wallet
A hot wallet is a tool that allows for storing cryptocurrency with a connection to the internet.
Iceberg Order
An iceberg order is a single large order that has been divided into smaller limit orders.
Immutability
Immutability underpins the reliability and trustworthiness of blockchain technology by enhancing security, and preventing fraud and unauthorised alterations, making it a reliable ledger for transactions.
Impermanent Loss (IL)
Impermanent loss occurs when the value of a token rises or falls after a trader has deposited it in a liquidity pool.
Impossible Trinity
The Impossible Trinity states that blockchains can only simultaneously achieve two out of either decentralisation, scalability, or security — but never all three.
Initial Coin Offering (ICO)
An initial coin offering (ICO) is a way for companies or projects to raise money by selling a new coin in exchange for investment capital.
Initial Exchange Offering (IEO)
An initial exchange offering (IEO) is when cryptocurrency projects and start-ups list through an exchange in order to generate capital.
Institutional Investor
Institutional investors are large, corporate entities that bring professional expertise, liquidity, and legitimacy to the cryptocurrency market, playing a critical role in its evolution.
Internet of Things (IoT)
The Internet of Things (IoT) refers to devices able to connect and share information with each other over the internet. IoT technology is most commonly seen in ‘smart home’ products, such as home hubs and multifunctional speakers.
Interoperability
The interoperability of blockchains is the concept of sharing information and transactions across different blockchain systems.
JOMO
JOMO, or the ‘joy of missing out’, is an expression by those celebrating not diving into volatile trades or following every trend.
Know Your Customer (KYC)
KYC refers to the ‘Know Your Customer’ process and is used by financial institutions to verify the individuals using their services.
Layer-0
Layer-0 is typically seen as the first layer of a blockchain, offering a stronger and more developed alternative to smart contracts.
Layer-1
Layer-1 is typically defined as a base-layer blockchain.
Layer-2
Layer-2 is a type of scaling solution for Layer-1 blockchains.
Ledger
A ledger is a record-keeping system that tracks participants’ identities, balances, and transactions within a certain network.
Left-Translated Cycle
A left-translated or left-sided cycle refers to a pattern in asset price movement with an earlier-than-expected increase in value, which can then be followed by a significant drop.
Leverage
Leverage can help to increase the potential return on investment for cryptocurrency traders by allowing them to open positions larger than their actual capital by borrowing funds.
LFG
LFG is used to express excitement about a project in the crypto community. It is short for ‘Let’s f—ing go!’.
Lightning Network
The Lightning Network is a Layer-2 protocol built on top of the Bitcoin blockchain.
Liquidation Call
A liquidation call is the process where a trading platform forcibly closes a trader's position because the margin account balance falls below the required maintenance margin.
Liquidity
Liquidity refers to the ease with which a cryptocurrency can be bought or sold in the market without causing a significant impact on its price.
Liquidity Pool
A liquidity pool is a collection of cryptocurrencies used to facilitate transactions on a decentralised exchange.
Liquidity Provider (LP)
A liquidity provider (LP) is a user who commits their cryptocurrency to a liquidity pool.
Lockup
In cryptocurrency and blockchain, ‘lockup’ refers to a period during which certain tokens or coins are restricted from being sold, transferred, or traded.
Long
In trading, ‘long’ refers to a strategy where a trader buys an asset with the expectation that its value will increase over time.
Loss Aversion
Loss aversion is a cognitive bias where traders feel worse from losses than good from gains, even though the losses and gains are of the same amount.
Mainchain
The mainchain is essentially the backbone of any blockchain network, providing the fundamental infrastructure for decentralised applications (dapps) and transactions.
Mainnet
A mainnet is a blockchain that runs independently, typically with its own technology, protocol, and network.
Maker Fee
A maker fee applies when a user places orders that are not immediately filled, adding liquidity to a trading platform's order book.
Margin Call
A margin call occurs when the value of a trader's margin account falls below the required maintenance margin level set by the exchange or trading platform.
Market Bubble
A market bubble is when the prices of cryptocurrencies significantly rise above their intrinsic value due to excessive market speculation and trader enthusiasm.
Market Cap
Market cap refers to the total dollar value of a cryptocurrency in circulation. It is calculated by multiplying the token price by the total number of tokens.
Market Correction
A market correction refers to a temporary price decline that occurs after a period of upward price movement or overvaluation, typically defined as a price drop of 10% or more from its recent peak.
Market Order
A market order is where a trader instructs an exchange to immediately buy or sell a cryptocurrency at the best available current market price.
Market Sentiment
Market sentiment in the cryptocurrency realm reflects the emotions and attitudes of market participants, influences buying and selling decisions, and often drives volatility.
Meme Coin
Meme coins are a type of cryptocurrency inspired by memes and internet jokes.
Mempool
Short for ‘memory pool’, a mempool serves as a temporary storage area for pending transactions that have been broadcast to the network but not yet confirmed by miners or validators.
Merkle Leaf
A Merkle leaf is the bottom-most node of a Merkle tree — a type of data structure that efficiently organises and verifies data using cryptographic hashes.
Merkle Proof
A Merkle proof allows for efficient and secure data verification in blockchain without requiring full access to the entire data structure.
Merkle Root
A key concept in how data is securely and efficiently verified within a blockchain, a Merkle root represents the combined hash of all transactions within a block.
Merkle Tree
A Merkle tree is a data structure constructed by hashing paired data and summarising all the transactions in a block by producing a digital fingerprint of the entire set of transactions.
Metadata
Metadata plays a crucial role in enhancing the usability, transparency, and functionality of blockchain networks, helping participants understand the context and details of the data being processed and ensuring the blockchain operates efficiently and transparently.
Metaverse
The Metaverse is a simulated digital environment that combines aspects of blockchain technology, social media, online gaming, augmented reality (AR), and virtual reality (VR) to create a 3D virtual space.
Miner
A miner is a computer (also known as a node) that solves mathematical problems relating to a cryptocurrency transaction in return for a block reward.
Mining
Mining is the process that projects use to generate new coins and verify blockchain transactions.
Mining Pool
A mining pool is a group of miners that combines its computational resources (hashing power) to increase the probability of finding a block and mining cryptocurrencies.
Mining Reward
A mining reward, otherwise referred to as a block reward, is a newly minted cryptocurrency given to a miner who successfully mines a new block on a blockchain.
Mint
‘Minting’ is the process where non-fungible tokens (NFTs) or new coins/tokens are generally generated on Proof of Stake (PoS) blockchains.
Mint Price
Mint price is the cost an individual would need to pay to publish an NFT on a particular blockchain.
Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT)
In Modern Portfolio Theory, traders aim to achieve an optimal mix of assets that balances the potential for high returns with acceptable levels of risk despite the inherent volatility of the cryptocurrency market.
Moon/Mooning
‘Mooning’ refers to a dramatic increase in the price of a particular cryptocurrency, leading to substantial gains.
Multi-Signature Authentication
Multi-signature authentication is a powerful tool for enhancing security, sharing control, and providing redundancy in cryptocurrency and blockchain applications.
Multi-Signature Wallet
A multi-signature (multisig) wallet is a type of digital wallet that requires multiple private keys to authorise a transaction.
NFT
An NFT, short for ‘non-fungible token’, is a unique, irreplaceable asset that lives on a blockchain.
NFT Collection
An NFT collection refers to a group or series of non-fungible tokens (NFTs), which are digital tokens minted on a blockchain and typically bought, sold, and traded on various blockchain-based marketplaces.
NFT ID
An NFT ID represents the identification number of an NFT in a collection.
NFT Sales Volume Index (7D)
The NFT Sales Volume Index (7D) shows the price and number of editions of a non-fungible token (NFT) collection sold over a 7-day (7D) period.
Nick Szabo
Nick Szabo is credited with the idea of the smart contract and the project Bit Gold.
Node
A node is a computer or device that participates in the network by maintaining a copy of the blockchain and validating transactions.
Non-Custodial Wallet
A non-custodial wallet, also known as a self-custody wallet, is a digital wallet that allows individuals to securely store and manage their digital assets without relying on a third-party custodian.
Non-Fungible Token (NFT)
A non-fungible token (NFT) is a unique, irreplaceable asset that lives on a blockchain.
Nonce
A nonce is an arbitrary number generated only once by a miner when they hash a transaction.
OCO Order
OCO (one-cancels-the-other) orders allow traders to set two orders simultaneously (often a limit order and a stop order), with the idea that if one of the orders gets executed, the other order is automatically canceled.
Off-Chain
Off-chain refers to transactions or activities that occur outside the blockchain, often addressing scalability, speed, and cost issues associated with on-chain transactions.
Offshore Account
An offshore account is a bank account held in a country other than the one in which the account holder resides or where the funds are generated.
Open Price
Open price indicates the price that an asset first trades at within a given period, typically a day.
Open-Source
Open-source is a term used to describe a publicly accessible software programme that users are free to inspect, modify, and share.
Open-Source Blockchain
An open-source blockchain refers to a blockchain network or protocol whose source code is made publicly available, allowing anyone to freely view, modify, and distribute the code.
Optimistic Rollup
An optimistic rollup is a Layer-2 scaling solution designed to enhance the throughput and efficiency of blockchains, allowing transactions to be processed off-chain, where multiple transactions are bundled together in large batches before being submitted to the mainchain.
Oracle
An oracle is a bridge that connects blockchain networks with external data sources or systems.
ORC-20 Token
The ORC-20 token standard is an open framework to enhance BRC-20 tokens on the Bitcoin network.
Order Book
An order book is a real-time, continuously updated list of buy and sell orders for a particular cryptocurrency that displays the prices and quantities of orders.
Ordinals
Ordinals are a means of creating Bitcoin NFTs by inscribing information onto individual satoshis.
Orphan Block
In blockchain technology, an orphan block is a block that was successfully mined and broadcast to the network but ultimately rejected because another block with the same block height had been added to the blockchain prior to the network confirming the orphan block.
Overbought
Overbought is a term to describe a cryptocurrency that has had its price increase more than its fundamentals would allow, either briefly or for an extended period of time.
Oversold
Oversold describes the state of a cryptocurrency that has been sold so much that its price has decreased either briefly or for an extended period of time.
Paper Hands
Paper hands is a term describing individuals who lack the conviction to hold on to their cryptocurrencies.
Parachain
Parachains are blockchains used on the Polkadot and Kusama networks, where they are natively integrated.
Passkey
A passkey is a password or private key used to access a cryptocurrency wallet, sign transactions, or interact with blockchain-based applications.
Pectra
The Ethereum Prague/Electra upgrade — ‘Pectra’ for short — will merge two previously planned upgrades, Prague and Electra, and introduce a range of Ethereum Improvement Proposals (EIPs) aimed at improving the network's efficiency, security, and scalability.
Peer-to-Peer (P2P)
In a peer-to-peer (P2P) network, each user is a member of and contributes to the network, sharing data and/or tasks.
Permissionless
Permissionless refers to a system — typically related to blockchains — in which no person or thing can dictate who is allowed to use it and how it is used.
Plaintext
Plaintext is a form of text that humans can understand without the need for decryption.
Play-to-Earn (P2E)
Play-to-earn (P2E) is an incentive model for blockchain video games.
Politically Exposed Person (PEP)
Politically Exposed Person (PEP) refers to individuals who are or have been entrusted with prominent public functions, such as government officials, senior executives of state-owned corporations, or high-ranking military officers.
Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT)
Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) is an algorithm that prevents Byzantine faults in asynchronous environments and optimises for low latency.
Price Discovery
Price discovery is the process by which the market determines the price of a specific cryptocurrency, which is driven by various factors like supply and demand, market sentiment, news, and macroeconomic indicators.
Private Chain
A private chain (blockchain) is an invitation-only network governed by a central entity.
Private Key
A private key is a secret key comprising letters and numbers that enables a crypto wallet user to access their funds and authenticate transactions. One of the most common use cases in the crypto space is to encrypt crypto wallets.
Proof of Activity (PoA)
A hybrid of the Proof of Work (PoW) and Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanisms, Proof of Activity (PoA) ensures all transactions on a network are legitimate and all miners reach a consensus.
Proof of Authority (PoA)
A variant of the Proof of Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism, Proof of Authority (PoA) selects its validators based on reputation.
Proof of Burn (PoB)
A consensus mechanism with minimal energy consumption, Proof of Burn (PoB) requires miners to ‘burn’ a portion of their tokens in order to earn the right to add a new block to the network.
Proof of Capacity
Proof of Capacity (PoC) is a type of consensus mechanism that bases its mining algorithm on the amount of space available on a miner’s hard drive.
Proof of Elapsed Time (PoET)
Proof of Elapsed Time (PoET) is a consensus algorithm used in permissioned blockchains to decide on mining rights.
Proof of History (PoH)
A type of consensus mechanism, Proof of History (PoH) nodes use their own internal clocks to encode a passage of time onto the blockchain ledger. The events are hashed with a Verifiable Delay Function (VDF).
Proof of Importance (PoI)
Proof of Importance (PoI) is a consensus mechanism that uses ‘importance scores’ to determine which nodes are eligible to mine new blocks. This helps to ensure that the network runs smoothly and all participants are contributing to its success.
Proof of Replication (PoRep)
Proof of Replication (PoRep) is a proof system used to demonstrate the dedication of unique resources to storing replicas of a data file.
Proof of Reputable Observations (PRO)
Proof of Reputable Observations (PRO) is a consensus mechanism that uses a combination of reputation scores and cryptographic mechanisms.
Proof of Stake (PoS)
Proof of Stake (PoS) is a type of consensus mechanism used to validate cryptocurrency transactions. It works by selecting validators based on the amount of tokens staked.
Proof of Work (PoW)
Proof of Work (PoW) is a decentralised consensus mechanism that requires miners to solve complex mathematical problems in order to win the right to verify transactions and add new blocks to the blockchain.
Public Chain
A public chain (blockchain) is a completely decentralised and open network in which anyone can join and participate.
Public Key
A public key is a series of letters and numbers used to encrypt plaintext into ciphertext; one of the most well-known uses is as a crypto wallet address.
QR Code
A QR code is a two-dimensional barcode that contains information related to a specific cryptocurrency transaction.
Quantum Computing
Quantum computing refers to the possible impact of quantum computers, which have the ability to perform certain types of calculations much faster than classical computers and can pose a threat to cryptocurrency security.
Rank
Rank shows the position of a non-fungible token (NFT) collection by 7-day volume.
Recency Bias
Recency bias is a cognitive bias that states a trader puts more importance on recent occurrences than past ones when making trading decisions.
Rekt
In the cryptocurrency world, the term ‘rekt’ is a slang word for ‘wrecked’, which means to receive a significant loss in a trade or investment.
Relative Strength Index (RSI)
The Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a popular momentum indicator used in technical analysis to measure the speed and change of recent price movements in a cryptocurrency.
Remittances
A remittance is any form of payment transferred to another party — from sending money to family members, making a payment, or settling an invoice.
Resistance Level
A resistance level is a crucial price point in cryptocurrency trading where upward momentum tends to stop and might even reverse due to increased selling pressure.
Retail Investors
Retail investors are individual, non-professional investors who buy and sell cryptocurrencies using their personal funds.
Right-Translated Market Cycle
Right translation is the tendency of prices to peak in the latter part of the cycle during bull markets.
Roadmap
A roadmap conveys the objectives, goals, and milestones of a project to potential backers.
RPC
RPC, short for Remote Procedure Call, is a mechanism that enables different components of a cryptocurrency network to communicate and interact effectively, facilitating transactions, data retrieval, and network operations.
RSA
RSA (short for Rivest–Shamir–Adleman) is one of the widely used public-key encryption algorithms for secure data transmission and is used to securely transmit messages over the internet.
Rug Pull
A rug pull is a type of scam in which the creators or developers of a project take traders' money and then abandon the project entirely.
Sales (7D)
Sales (7D) is an indicator showing the number of NFT sales over a seven-day period.
Satoshi Nakamoto
Satoshi Nakamoto is the pseudonym for the to-date unknown individual or group accredited with the creation of Bitcoin.
Satoshis/Sats
Satoshis, known as ‘sats’, are the smallest unit available in bitcoin.
Scalability
Blockchain scalability refers to the ability of a blockchain network to handle an increasing amount of transactions and data without compromising performance, security, or decentralisation.
Scalability Trilemma
The blockchain scalability trilemma states that blockchains can only simultaneously achieve two out of either decentralisation, scalability, or security — but never all three.
Security Token
Security tokens are digital forms of traditional securities and represent ownership of the underlying project, company, or asset.
Seed Phrase
A seed phrase is a series of 12 to 24 words used to access the digital assets in a cryptocurrency wallet.
SHA-256
SHA-256 is a cryptographic hash function used to generate unique identifiers (hashes) for blocks in the blockchain, ensuring data integrity and consistency.
Sharding
Sharding is a scaling method in which a large database is separated into smaller and more easily managed parts in order to increase the transaction load capacity and improve a network’s efficiency.
Shill
Shill, or shilling, is the act of promoting a cryptocurrency project.
Short Selling
Short selling is a form of advanced trading of assets, where a ‘short’ position is opened on an asset when the trader anticipates a drop in its price; a short sell is only profitable if the asset’s price decreases.
Sidechain
A sidechain is a separate blockchain that runs in parallel, and acts as an extension, to the main blockchain.
Slashing
Slashing is an essential feature of Proof of Stake (PoS) networks, helping to maintain the security, functionality, and trustworthiness of the PoS network by ensuring that validators act honestly and reliably.
Slippage
Slippage occurs when a trader locks in a price for a trade but ultimately receives a different price from the original request due to price movement.
Smart Contract
Smart contracts are self-executing, where the contents of the agreement between the buyer and seller are embedded into lines of code.
Software Wallet
A software wallet is a computer programme or mobile application that allows users to store cryptocurrency keys and make transactions.
Solidity
Solidity is the programming language used to develop smart contracts on blockchain networks.
Sound Wallet
A sound wallet in cryptocurrency is a novel way of storing private keys using sound or audio.
Stablecoin
Stablecoins are cryptocurrencies designed to have a relatively stable price, which is typically achieved through pegging to an external asset, such as a commodity or fiat currency.
Staking
Staking is the process of providing funds to a blockchain network in return for interest.
Staking Pool
A staking pool is a mechanism that allows multiple participants to combine their resources to increase their chances of earning rewards through staking.
State Channels
State channels are peer-to-peer protocols in which users can interact off the blockchain, where two parties exchange transactions with each other before ultimately posting to the blockchain.
Stochastic Oscillator
The stochastic oscillator is a momentum indicator used in technical analysis of securities trading.
Stop-Limit Order
A stop-limit order in cryptocurrency trading is a two-step order that combines elements of a stop order and a limit order.
Stop-Loss Order
A stop-loss order is an order that gets placed with a broker, which tells them to buy or sell a stock via a market order once it reaches a specific price.
Support Level
A support level is a key price point where a cryptocurrency tends to halt its decline and might even bounce back up due to increased buying interest.
Symmetrical Triangle
A symmetrical triangle is a chart pattern that can indicate a period of price consolidation before both a breakout or breakdown, making it a neutral trading signal.
Taker Fee
A taker fee is the cost incurred by traders who execute orders that are immediately matched, removing liquidity from the order book.
Technical Analysis
Technical analysis is a method to evaluate and predict future price movements of cryptocurrencies based on historical price data and trading volume.
Tendermint
Tendermint is a blockchain protocol used to replicate and launch blockchain applications across machines in a secure and consistent manner.
Testnet
An alternative to the mainnet blockchain, the testnet allows developers to test their projects or updates before applying them to the mainnet.
The DAO Hack
The DAO Hack occurred in June 2016, where an individual exploited The DAO on Ethereum and siphoned US$60 million from it.
Time to Finality (TTF)
Time to Finality (TTF) describes the amount of time it takes a block on a blockchain to finalise after a transaction is included in it.
Timestamp
A timestamp refers to the exact moment when a particular block is mined and validated to the blockchain.
Token
A cryptocurrency token is a digital asset that can be assigned a price. It represents a tradeable or utility asset built on top of an existing blockchain network.
Tokenomics
Tokenomics refers to the structure and governing aspects of a cryptocurrency.
Tower Byzantine Fault Tolerance (Tower BFT)
Tower Byzantine Fault Tolerance is a consensus algorithm with a hierarchical structure designed to ensure the security and reliability of distributed systems like blockchain networks.
TradFi
Traditional finance, or TradFi, is a conventional approach to financial activities that relies on established institutions, such as banks, insurance companies, investment companies, and stock exchanges.
Trading Fees
Trading fees are costs that users pay when they engage in transactions on a blockchain network or trade cryptocurrencies on an exchange.
Transaction Volume
Transaction volume represents the total number of transactions of a cryptocurrency traded within a specified time period.
Transactions Per Second (TPS)
Transactions per second (tps) measures the number of transactions a network can execute in one second.
Trendline
A trendline in cryptocurrency trading is a straight line drawn on a price chart to help identify and visualise the direction of the market’s trend, usually to detect uptrends, downtrends, and sideway trends.
Trustless
Trustless is a term that describes a space where there is no centralised authority.
Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)
By requiring two forms of identification, two-factor authentication (2FA) provides a robust defence against many types of cyber threats, making it an essential security feature in the cryptocurrency and blockchain space.
Unit of Account
In the context of cryptocurrencies, a unit of account refers to the function of a digital currency to serve as a standard measure of value for goods, services, assets, or debt within an economy.
Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO)
Unspent transaction output (UTXO) represents the remaining balance of digital currency following a cryptocurrency transaction.
URI Schemes
Cryptocurrency URI schemes are used to define a standard way of identifying and interacting with resources like cryptocurrency addresses, transactions, or payment requests.
User Interface (UI)
In blockchain technology, ‘user interface’ (UI) typically refers to the graphical or visual elements through which users interact with a cryptocurrency platform, wallet, or decentralised application (dapp). UI plays a crucial role in providing a user-friendly experience.
Utility Token
Utility tokens are a type of cryptocurrency that has specific use cases within a blockchain network ecosystem.
UTXO
UTXO is an abbreviation for ‘unspent transaction output’, which represents the remaining balance of digital currency following a cryptocurrency transaction.
Validator
Responsible for achieving consensus, a validator is a participant in a Proof of Stake (PoS) blockchain network chosen to create new blocks and validate transactions based on the amount of cryptocurrency they ‘stake’ in the network.
Value (ETH)
Value (ETH) is a metric on the Crypto.com Price page that represents the price of an asset in Ether (ETH).
Vapourware
Vapourware refers to a technology that has been announced — yet not released, even long after its projected release date. Often, vapourware is never released or even officially cancelled.
Vault
Vaults are secure storage solutions for digital assets, designed with multiple layers of security for storing cryptocurrencies to protect against theft and hacking.
Verifiable Delay Functions (VDFs)
A Verifiable Delay Function (VDF) is a mathematical puzzle that requires a certain amount of time and computational effort to solve; once solved, its correctness can be efficiently verified by anyone.
Verkle Tree
A Verkle tree is a data structure that combines elements of both Merkle trees and vector commitments to improve the efficiency of proof sizes in blockchain applications, particularly for verifying large datasets.
Vest/Vesting Period
A vesting period is when a project restricts the sale of a token over a specific period.
Virtual Machine
In cryptocurrency, a virtual machine is a software environment that mimics a physical computer and is designed to execute smart contracts or decentralised applications (dapps) on the blockchain network.
Vitalik Buterin
Vitalik Buterin is the creator of Ethereum, which sits behind Bitcoin as the second-largest cryptocurrency by market capitalisation.
Volatility
In cryptocurrency, volatility refers to the degree of variation in the price of a particular digital asset over time.
Volume
In cryptocurrency, ‘volume’ refers to the total amount of a particular cryptocurrency that has been traded within a specific time frame, indicating the level of trading activity for a particular asset.
Volume (7D)
Volume (7D) is the total amount of a cryptocurrency asset traded within a seven-day period.
WAGMI
Meaning ‘We’re all gonna make it’, WAGMI is commonly used in the crypto space to instil confidence and encourage the community.
Wallet
A cryptocurrency wallet is a software programme or device that stores a user’s public and private keys.
Wash Trading
Wash trading is a form of trading where an asset is sold and bought back simultaneously or in close succession. Wash trading is an illegal form of trading in most jurisdictions.
Web1
Web1 is the ‘read-only’ web, which is a one-way communication channel that contains only static images and text.
Web2
Web2 is the second version of the World Wide Web (WWW) — the current version of the internet — characterised by the shift from the static web pages of Web1 to dynamic or user-generated content.
Web3
Sometimes referred to as the semantic web, Web3 is the ‘read-write-execute’ version of the internet, currently in development.
Whale
A whale is an individual or organisation that holds a significant amount of Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies.
White Paper
A white paper is a technical write-up for a project that explains everything from the purpose to its tokenomics to the technology of how the project works.
Witness
A ‘witness’ is a transaction signature attesting to the authenticity of a specific transaction, verifying a cryptographic claim.
XRP
XRP is primarily used for facilitating cross-border transactions between financial institutions, businesses, and individuals, acting as a bridge currency in the XRP Ledger by facilitating exchanges between different currencies without the need for traditional banking intermediaries.
Yield
In cryptocurrency, ‘yield’ refers to the return or profit generated from holding or staking digital assets through DeFi protocols.
Yield Farming
Yield farming is a process for users to be rewarded with tokens or fees for locking up their cryptocurrency.
Zero-Knowledge Proof
A Zero-Knowledge (ZK) proof is a system that allows a party to prove their possession of certain information without revealing the information itself.
ZK Rollup
A Zero-Knowledge (ZK) rollup is a Layer-2 scaling solution for blockchains, particularly designed to improve scalability and reduce transaction costs.
ZK-SNARK
A ZK-SNARK is a cryptographic technique used to prove possession of certain information without revealing that information itself. In relation to cryptocurrencies, ZK-SNARKs are used for privacy and scalability purposes.
ZK-STARK
A ZK-STARK is a cryptographic proof system used in blockchain and cryptocurrencies designed to provide a way for users to prove the validity of certain information or computations without revealing any of the underlying data.


51% Attack
An attack on blockchain by a group of miners controlling more than 50% of network hash rate
A
Address Delegation
Delegation of a wallet's stake to a Super Staker
Airdrop
A way to promote cryptocurrencies by sending some free tokens to traders
Algorithm
Algorithm is a set of rules to follow to solve a problem or conduct a task.
Algorithmic Stablecoin
Algorithmic stablecoins are tokens pegged to a fiat currency which is usually the US dollar, purely through software and specific conditions.
All-Time-High (ATH)
The highest point (in price, in market capitalization) that a cryptocurrency has been in history.
All-Time-Low (ATL)
The lowest point (in price, in market capitalization) that a cryptocurrency has been in history.
Altcoin
Coins althernative to Bitcoin
Application Programming Interface (API)
It is a software that acts like an intermediary or a bridge that lets two applications talk to each other. It is the one that lets applications, data and devices interact.
Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)
Refers to specialized computers that are made to do a very specific task (eg. calculate hashes for Bitcoin's Proof-of-Work)
Arbitrage
A strategy where investors buy a currency in a market and sell it at a higher price in another market to gain profit.
ASIC Resistant
A term used to describe cryptocurrency proof-of-work protocols that are resistant to Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), by packing in various parameters that make it difficult for ASICs to have a competitive edge against consumer hardwares.
Ask Me Anything (AMA)
Ask me anything refers to actions where individuals of certain profession (eg. fireman, nurse, journalists) or company (eg. CEO of Tesla) conduct a session for users to ask them questions.
Atomic SWAP
Atomic Swap refers to the exchange of cryptocurrencies that operate in different block chains without intermediaries.
Automatic Replay Protection
Automatic Replay Protection refers to the upgrade implemented by Bitcoin Cash to stop the loss of funds from exchanges through replay attacks.
B
Bagholder
A person who is holding a large quantity of cryptocurrency which is declining in value or becoming worthless
Bakkt
Bakkt is a company developed by the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE), owner of the New York Stock Exchange. It specializes in Futures/Options contracts for cryptocurrencies.
Batch Auction
A Batch Auction distributes an amount of tokens to users that is proportional to their contribution to the pool.
Bearish
A term used to indicate negative sentiment towards the market or an asset, where investors believe that there will be downward price movement.
Bear Market
Contrary to bull market, it indicates the direction of the market going for downward trend.
Bitcoin ATM
A machine from which you can buy or sell Bitcoin. Typically also offers different types of cryptocurrencies.
Bitcoin Evangelist
Individuals who are passionate about Bitcoin, and are dedicated in spreading knowlege about Bitcoin
Bitcoin Improvement Proposal (BIP)
Refers to improvement proposals for Bitcoin, used to introduce features or any updates on the Bitcoin network.
BitLicense
Refers to the business license issued by the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYSDFS) to companies dealing with Cryptocurrencies (subject to certain exceptions) in New York.
Block
In the context of blockchain, block refers to the collection of transactional data or information that are bundled together in a predetermined size.
Blockchain
In Bitcoin's case, blockchain describes its decentralized, public ledger which contains transactional information.
Block Confirmation
Refers to the number of confirmation a particular block has. Each block ahead of the referenced block adds one block confirmation to it.
Block Explorer
Application or websites which display information such as status of transactions or data contained in a block of a given public blockchain network.
Block Height
A number that is used to indicated the position of a particular block within a blockchain
Block Reward
One of the mechanisms built into a blockchain to incentivize validators
Bloodbath
In context of trading, the term bloodbath is commonly used to describe a market which is on a downtrend with many assets suffering from value depreciation.
Bots
Refers to software or programmes that automatically trade based on preset behaviours.
Bounty
Public tasks available for anyone for a reward
BUIDL
An advice for investors to contribute new projects on blockchain rather than holding cryptocurrencies and waiting for the price to increase
Bullish
A term used to indicate positive sentiment towards the market or an asset, where investors believe that there will be upward price movement.
Bull Market
A bull market indicates the direction of the market going in an upward trend.
Burned Tokens
Tokens which have been sent to addresses whose private key are not known, effectively becoming unusable.
Buy/Sell Tax
On-chain buy or sell tax rate where a percentage of the tokens bought/sold will be transferred to a set address.
Buy the F***in Dip (BTFD)
An encouraging rally by asset/cryptocurrency supporters to buy during a price decline
Buy Wall
Anomalously large buy order(s) at a single price point that reflects as a "wall" in the order book.
Byzantine Fault
A byzantine fault is where an error has occured, yet a computer system does not know due which component/what failed to the lack of information and continues to iterate on a given instruction.
Byzantine Generals’ Problem
A term used to describe the situation a single strategy which requires consensus from all members within a group who cannot be trusted or verified
C
cc0 NFT
A cc0 NFT is a piece of digital content where the IP rights have been relinquished.
Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC)
It is a digital fiat currency issued by the central banks, contrary to cryptocurrency that issued by non-legislative party.
Centralized
An organization structure wherein a small handful of actors have control over the entire network.
Central Ledger
Central data repository of a company or bank
Circulating Supply
An approximation of the number of coins or tokens that are currently not locked and available for public transactions.
Cloud Mining
Mining on blockchains through rented processing power rented from companies that host the physical equipment.
Cold Storage
Offline storage of cryptocurrencies which is arguably safer as they also require physical access (eg. hardware wallet, paper wallets)
Cold Wallet
Wallets that are offline and require physical access to certain devices (eg. hardware wallet, paper wallets)
Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO)
A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a form of derivative in which the value is generated from another underlying asset, and is sold to institutional investors.
Composability
Composability refers to the ability to combine different components of a software stack.
Consensus
Consensus is achieved in a blockchain system when all participants agree on the content of the next block that will be added onto the blockchain.
Crowdsale
This type of auction has a fixed price per token that is sold on a first-come-first-serve basis.
Crypto Bubble
It is a speculation in the cryptocurrencies and the price of cryptocurrencies would go extremely high before the bubble bursts.
Cryptocurrency
A form of digital currency that utilizes cryptographic protocols to record ownership and prevent counterfeiting
Cryptocurrency Act of 2020
The Cryptocurrency Act of 2020 is a bill which aims to clarify which federal agencies would regulate which type of crypto assets.
Cryptography
A discipline or field of study which practices using cryptography to convert human-readable information that can only be deciphered by individuals who have the knowledge to.
Custody
Protective care or guardianship of an asset.
D
Daily Active Addresses (DAA)
On a blockchain, users interact with one another through their addresses, and daily active addresses (DAA) refers to the number of addresses which fulfills the defined activity parameter on a given blockchain.
Dead Cat Bounce
Price rally that is short lived after a prolonged decline. Price charts will show a recovery in anticipation of a market turnaround only to decline further.
Decentralized
A system where there are no centralized points of failure or organization with no central authority figure.
Decentralized Applications (dApps)
Applications that run on decentralized peer-to-peer networks such as Ethereum.
Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO)
Open source and decentralized systems that do not require centralized operators or controllers.
Decentralized Finance (DeFi)
Decentralized Finance (DeFi) refers to the movement of building decentralized financial applications that have no central authority and is censorship free.
Decryption
The process of decrypting data that was previously encrypted (made unreable) back to a readable form.
Degen
Cryptotrading without Due Diligence and research - basically gambling
Delegated Proof-of-Stake (dPOS)
A consensus mechanism where selected members of a network are voted as delegates to validate transactions and produce blocks on a blockchain.
Derivatives
A financial instrument which derives its value from the performance of an underlying asset or index (eg. gold, crude oil)
Derivatives Market
A market for derivatives which are instruments such as futures or options whose value is derived from an underlying asset.
Difficulty
A relative measure on how difficult it is to correctly guess a new block
Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)
Directed acyclic graphs refers to a data structure that is built in one single direction, yet branches out and never repeats.
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Attack
A common cyber-attack tactic where a perpetrator diverts large amounts of traffic towards a particular network or service in an effort to disrupt normal services.
Distributed Ledger
Ledgers whose data is stored and synced across a network of nodes.
Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)
Describes the technology that enables distributed ledger.
Dominance
Typically refers to Bitcoins' market capitalization dominance.
Double Spending
Double spending refers to the act of spending digital currencies twice. This is most commonly applied on crypto exchanges by unscrupulous actors.
Do Your Own Research (DYOR)
An advice for investors to do their own research on the coins they wanted to invest in
Dump
A common term used to describe downward market movement, or to describe the action of selling an individuals holdings.
Dusting Attack
A new form of malicious activity in which hackers and scammers attempt to undermine the privacy of cryptocurrency users by sending little amounts of money to their wallets.
Dutch Auction
A Dutch Auction, also know as an "inverted" auction, starts off with high asking price that decays over time until a pre-determined floor price.
E
EIP (Ethereum Improvement Proposal)
Refers to improvement proposals for Ethereum, used to introduce features or any updates on the Ethereum network.
Emission
The speed/rate at which new coins are minted and released as dictated by the protocols written.
Encryption
In cryptography, encryption is a process of encoding information the original form of information called plaintext via an algorithm called cipher. The encrypted message is now called ciphertext. Only authorized parties can decipher the ciphertext and convert back it to the original plaintext.
Enterprise Ethereum Alliance (EEA)
Enterprise Ethereum Alliance is made up for a group of Ethereum developers, corporations as well as startups who are collaborating to find ways to use Ethereum for business applications.
ERC-1155
ERC-1155 token standard allows each token ID to represent both non-fungible (NFTs) and fungible tokens which may have their metadata, token supply and other attributes.
ERC-20
ERC-20 is one of the most widely used token standards in Ethereum to create fungible, exchangeable tokens.
ERC-721
ERC-721 is one of the most widely used token standards in Ethereum to create non-fungible, exchangeable tokens.
Ethereum Name Service (ENS)
Ethereum Name Service (ENS) is a look-up service that allows Ethereum users to find websites or send and receive funds via simple names.
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) is the environment in which all smart contracts are executed.
Exchange Traded Fund (ETF)
An exchange-traded fund (ETF) is a form of security that tracks a collection of securites such as stocks, bonds, index or cryptocurrency but tradeable like a single stock.
Explain Like I'm Five (ELI5)
To explain in such simple terms that even a five-year-old would be able to understand it.
Externally Owned Accounts (EOA)
Externally owned accounts (EOAs) are accounts that are controlled by a private key and have no coding associated with them.
F
Faucet
A faucet usually represents a site or app where a user can navigate to for small rewards repeated over time.
Fear of Missing Out (FOMO)
Refers to the feeling of apprehension for missing out on a potentially profitable investment opportunity and regretting it later. Generally an expression describing investors' fear of missing out the good timing of buying cryptocurrencies that could eventually be profitable
Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt (FUD)
A strategy to dissuade people from buying a particular cryptocurrency by spreading false information
Fiat-Pegged Cryptocurrency
Cryptocurrencies are pegged to an underlying asset.
Flappening
Flappening is a term used to describe Litecoin growing bigger and becoming more valuable than Bitcoin Cash (BCH). It is spawned from the term Flippening (used when another crypto overtakes Bitcoin).
Frontrun
To intercept a particularly large AMM buy order for the purpose of purchasing an reselling the assets back to the buyer before the order transaction is mind on the blockchain.
Full Node
Full Nodes are computers that verify the set of rules that are built into the protocols of a given cryptocurrency.
Full Pay-Per-Share (FPPS)
FPPS is quite similar to PPS; the only difference is that the pool will additionally pay a transaction fee incentive if the block is identified. FPPS is the same as PPS+.
Fully Diluted Valuation
Fully Diluted Valuation (FDV) is the theoretical market capitalization of a coin if the entirety of its supply is in circulation, based on its current market price. The FDV value is theoretical as increasing the circulating supply of a coin may impact its market price. Also depending on the tokenomics, emission schedule or lock-up period of a coin's supply, it may take a significant time before its entire supply is released into circulation.
Futures
An agreement between two counterparties that obligates them to transact in the future based on the contract terms set.
G
Gas
A unit of measurement of the computational effort in conducting transactions or smart contracts on Ethereum blockchain.
Gas Limit
A term refers to the maximum amount of units of gas user's willingness to spend on a transaction on Ethereum blockchain.
Gas Price
A term refers to the amount of price user is willing to pay for a transaction on Ethereum blockchain.
Genesis Block
It is the first block of data that is processed and validated to form a new blockchain, typically called as 'block 0' or 'block 1'.
gm Good Morning
gm is the short form writing for good morning. Used extensively within the crypto community where individuals greet each other casually. On the other hand, good night (gn) is used when people sign off for the day.
Goblin Town
A term used to describe the market's persistent downtrend, synonymous with "bear market".
Golden Cross
It is a bullish signal in technical candlestick pattern by comparing two lines of short-term moving average and long-term average. It is a golden cross when the short term moving average broke its long-term moving average.
Graphical Processing Unit (GPU)
They are chips dedicated to graphics processing or floating point operations, allowing to lighten the workload of the processors during applications usage such as video games.
Gwei
The monetary domination of gas, involving Ether
H
Halving
Event that serves to reduce in half the reward of the Proof-of-Work miners that operate in the blockchain network.
Hard cap
The maximum amount that an ICO will be raising.
Hard Fork
It is a permanent divergence of a blockchain into two blockhains. The original blockchain does not recognize the new version.
Hash
A hash function is an output code (unique and alphanumeric) that we obtain from an input string,
Hashgraph
Hashgraph is a distributed ledger system that has been compared to the blockchain idea as a continuation or successor.
Hashrate
Total processing power of a blockchain or what is the same, are the amount of hash values that can be made in a period of time.
Hey Hey Hey
A term made popular by Carlos Matos who was the spokesperson for the Bitconnect Ponzi. He used it frequently during Bitconnect events to rile up the crowd.
HODL
A crypto slang of saying holding the assets rather than selling it. A crypto slang encouraging investors to hold on to their assets rather than selling it.
Hot Wallet
It is a tool that store your cryptocurrencies and always connected to internet
Hybrid PoW/PoS
It is the allowance for both Proof-of-Stake and Proof-of-Work distribution consensus to work on the same network.
Hyperledger (Hyperledger Foundation)
Hyperledger is an open source collaborative effort to create blockchain technologies hosted by The Linux Foundation since 2016.
I
IEO
Initial Exchange Offering (IEO) is a spin-off of Initial Coin Offering (ICO), where the sale of tokens are conducted on an exchange rather than by the coin team themselves.
Immutable
A property characterized by inability to be change and stays unchanged over time.
Impermanent Loss
Temporary loss of funds due to volatility leading to divergence in price between token pairs provided by liquidity providers.
Initial Coin Offering (ICO)
Initial Coin Offering (ICO) is the equivalent of Initial Public Offering (IPO), where a company/cryptocurrency venture raises funds through crowd sales.
Internet of Things (IoT)
It is a system that lets any devices that are connected to internet to comunicate with each other without human-to-human or human-to-devices interactions.
Interoperability
Interoperability refers to the property of product/systems that are able to work with products/systems that are different without any restrictions.
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)
The InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) is a peer-to-peer network and distributed file system protocol for storing and transferring data.
IPO
Initial Public Offering (IPO) refers to the process where a public company offers newly issued shares to the public and as a result raise capital from public investors.
IYKYK
Abbreviation for: if you know you know. The phrase implies that the user has dropped some sort of insider knowledge about a specific experience. Often, the post will have some callback to a particular experience that will instantly stand out to those who are “in the know,” or ironically sharing commonly known information.
K
Kimchi Premium
The kimchi premium is the price difference between South Korean exchanges and other global exchanges for bitcoin.
KYC (Know Your Customer)
KYC stands for "Know Your Customer", a process for business entities are required to verify its clients and assessing them.
L
Ledger
A record of financial transactions that cannot be changed, only appended with new transactions.
Leverage
It is an investment strategy to gain potential return of the investment by borrowing the money
Lightning Network
It is the "second layer" or an off-chain of payment protocol that operates on top of a blockchain. Payments on this network do not need block confirmation and it will be instant.
Limit Order / Limit Buy / Limit Sell
Orders placed by traders to buy or sell a cryptocurrency when a certain price is reached
Liquidity
The ease of which cryptocurrency can be bought and sold without impacting the overall market price.
Liquid Proof of Stake (LPoS)
A proof of stake consensus mechanism by Tezos that slightly differs from Delegated Proof of Stake.
M
Mainnet
It is the main network of Bitcoin, where the transactions of this cryptocurrency are registered and take place.
Margin Call
Margin call takes place when investor's margin account falls below the required amount to stay afloat.
Margin Trading
It is a way of investing by borrowing money from a broker (or in crypto, an exchange or platform) to trade
Market capitalization (market cap)
In Crypto, market cap is measured by multiplication of the circulating supply of tokens or currency and its current price
Market Maker
Participant of the market who creates buy and orders
Market Order / Market Buy / Market Sell
A market order is a buy or sell order of stocks or cryptocurrency at the best price available in the current market as soon as possible.
Market Taker
Participant of the market who buys and sells from currently existing orders
Masternodes
Computers that are responsible for processing blockchain transactions and receive a reward when a block is mined.
Mempool
It is the abbreviation of Memory Pool. Set of unconfirmed transactions in a blockchain
Merkle Tree
A Merkle tree is also known as a hash tree in cryptography. It is a tree where every lead node is labelled with cryptographic hash of a data block, and every non-leaf node is labelled with the hash of the labels of its child nodes. It is used to verify of data stored within it and transferable in and between computers.
Metaverse
The Metaverse is a virtual space where users are able to interact with each other in a computer generated environment.
MicroBitcoin (uBTC)
One millionth of a bitcoin or 0.000001 of a bitcoin. Microbitcoin is the abbreviation of uBTC and often misunderstood as the fork of Bitcoin.
Microtransaction
Microtransaction is a system that made very small payments possible in buying the common digital goods and services, such as purchasing items in a game.
Mineable
A cryptocurrency is said to be "mineable" when it has the system thrugh which miners can be rewarded with newly-created cryptocurrencies for creating blocks.
Miners
Contributors to a blockchain taking part in the process of mining.
Mining
It is the process of the miners verify and adding transaction recors into a block.
Mining Contract
Another term for cloud mining, where users can rent or invest in mining capacity online.
Mining Pool
Combination of resources of several miners to obtain a higher mining power and thus achieve greater rewards for the opening of blocks.
Mining Reward
The reward resulting from contributing computing resources to process transactions
Mining Rig
A dedicated hardware to mine
Mnemonic Phrase
A mnemonic phrase (also known as mnemonic seed, or seed phrase) is a list of words used in sequence to access or restore your cryptocurrency assets.
Mnemonics
Mnemonics are memory aids with a system such as letters or associations that help in recall. *see Mnemonic Phrase.
Money Printer Go Brrr
A meme made to describe the US Fed printing excessive amount of money to support the traditional financial market to avert the stock market crash during the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic.
Moon
"Moon" or "To the moon" is a crypto slang that describes an exclamation when the cryptocurrencies prices are rising and when it hit the peak, the coin is said to be "mooning".
Mt. Gox
Mtgox or Mt. Gox was one of the first websites where users could take part in fiat-to-bitcoin exchange (and vice versa).
Multisignal (multi-signature)
They are wallets that require more than one key for transactions to be authorized.
N
Node
Within the blockchain network, the nodes are computers that connect to the network and have an updated copy of the blockchain
Nonce
Abbreviation for ‘number only used once’ It is of vital importance next to the hash in the verification of data from the Bitcoin blockchain network.
Non-custodial
It is a decentralized type-of-wallet, where the users owns its private keys.
Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT)
They are collectible elements within the Ethereum blockchain under ERC-721, where each token refers to a single element with a certain value
O
Off-chain
It refers to transactions occuring outside the blockchain and executed instantly.
Offline Staking
Staking without needing to be connected to the blockchain
Open/Close
The price at which a cryptocurrency opens at a time period, for example at the start of the day; the price at which a cryptocurrency closes at a time period, for example at the end of the day.
Open Source
Open-source software is a type of software released under a license in which the copyright holder grants users the rights to study, change, and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose.
opML (Optimistic Machine Learning)
opML (Optimistic Machine Learning) employs an optimistic verification mechanism and is able to handle large-scale machine learning models with billions of parameters efficiently, using fraud proofs that verify the ML computation.
Option
It is a financial instruments that refers to a contract offers the buyer the right to buy or sell an underlying assets at a specified price and time.
Oracles
In the context of crypto, oracles refers to services which verify real-world and provide data to blockchains/smart contracts.
Order Book
An electronic list of all buy and sell orders in an exchange
Over The Counter (OTC)
It refers to the process that cryptocurrencies are being traded outside exchange and it is done directly between two parties
P
Pay-Per-Last N Shares (PPLNS)
PPLNS system only pays miners after the pool has discovered the block. This means you'll only be compensated once the block has been discovered.
Pay-Per-Share (PPS)
You are compensated for each valid share that you contribute. Each share is worth a set amount of cryptocurrency that may be mined.
Peer to Peer
A communication protocol that does not require a central hub
Permissioned Blockchain
It is a private blockchain where the nodes must be previously authorized by a central entity.
PFP
It means both 'profile pic' and 'picture for proof'.
Ponzi Scheme
A Ponzi scheme is also referred to as pyramid scheme, and typically takes the form of an investment scheme which pays existing investors with funds collected from new investors.
Portfolio
A portfolio consists all of your current crypto holdings in one place.
Pre-sale
A typically exclusive token sale event preceding a public ICO
Privacy Coins
Cryptocurrencies that are designed with transaction anonimity and user privacy in mind.
Private Keys
The alphanumeric string which allows transactions from the cryptocurrency address
Proof-of-Authority (PoA)
A consensus algorithm that asigns block validation queue based on identity and reputation.
Proof-of-Burn (PoB)
A consensus algorthm that assigns block validation queue based on the coins/token burned by the validator.
Proof-of-Developer (PoD)
A concept of identifying the developers of a project as a means of vouching reputation for a project
Proof of Stake (PoS)
A consensus algorthm that assigns block validation queue based on the coins/token locked in by the validator.
Proof of Work (PoW)
A consensus algorithm in which a block is validated via mathematical hashing
Protocol
The set of rules in a network in which participating members comply to allow proper communication.
Public Blockchain
An open sourced blockchain where participation is public and permissionless
Public Keys
The alphanumeric string which serves as a public receiving address in cryptocurrencies.
Pump and Dump Scheme
A market manipulation method to drive up the price of an asset before profiting by driving it back down.
Q
QR Code
Abbreviation "Quick Response Code", QR code is a machine readable optical label that stores up to 3Kb of data
R
Reddit r/CryptoCurrency Moon
Moons are a new way for people to be rewarded for their contributions to r/CryptoCurrency
REKT
A shorthand slang for “wrecked”, typically describes bad trades that results in losses.
Relative Strength Index (RSI)
Relative Strength Index (RSI) is a popular technical indicator used to analyse financial markets. By charting the current and historical closing prices to evaluate overbought/oversold conditions, RSI oscillates between 0 - 100, with <30 indicating oversold and >70 indicating overbought.
Replay Attack
A replay attack is a form of network attack when valid data transmission is fraudulently intercepted, then delayed or resent to mislead the receiver into doing what the hacker wants.
Ring Signature
A type of digital signature performed in a group where it becomes impossible to determine which member's key in the group were used for the digital signature.
ROI
Short for “Return on Investment”, the ratio between the net profit and cost of investing.
Rug Pull
Sudden removal of liquidity which typically leads to asset prices crashing from the lack of liquidity to absorb buy/sells.
S
Salt (cryptography)
In cryptography, a salt is the additional random input that is added to password or passphrase to make the password hash unique. It prevents from the hashed output password to be cracked so easily by the hacker.
Satoshi
A unit measure for the smallest divisible unit of a bitcoin. 1 bitcoin is equal to 100 Million Satoshi.
Satoshi Nakamoto
The pseudoym used in publishing the Bitcoin Whitepaper. Identity is unknown.
Scrypt
one of the hashing algoritm used in proof-of-work protocol, scrypt requires more memory in order to performing mining functions
Second-Layer Solutions
Secondary network or framework built atop an existing blockchain to address transaction speed and scalability issues.
Secure Asset Fund for Users (SAFU)
A feature created by Binance which contains reserve funds that can be used to reimburse users in case of a catastrophic event (eg. exchange hack)
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, an independant agency of the US Federal government which oversees federal securities laws, proposing securities rules, and regulating the securities industry.
Seed
A value used to initiate generation of pseudorandom number, ususally a string of 12 commen English words.
Segregated Witness (SegWit)
A soft fork implementation to change the Bitcoin Protocol's transaction format to address Bitcoin's scalability issues whilst introducing new features.
Sell wall
Anomalously large sell order(s) at a single price point that reflects as a "wall" in the order book.
SHA-256
Abbreviation of "Secure Hashing Algoritm - 256", SHA-256 is part of the SHA2 that allows one-way hashing of any data into a 64 character string.
Sharding
A form of database partitioning which breaks up data into smaller segments.
Shilling
One who poses as a enthsiastic customer to swindle others as a form of covert advestising.
Shitcoin
A coin with no obvious potential value or usage.
Side Chain
A separate blockchain ledger that runs parallel with the primary blockchain.
Sim Swapping
It is a tactic where hacker overtake the mobile phone to exploit the two-factor authentication and two-step verification.
Smart contracts
Self executing contracts on the blockchain without needing human executors or notary.
Soft Cap
Targeted fund raising limit of an ICO
Soft Fork
A backward-compatible update to a decentralized blockchain protocol.
Software Development Kit (SDK)
It is a collection of software development tools in one package installation. It is designed to help developing applications for a specific device or operating system (OS).
Solidity
Object oriented programming languaged used in various smart contract blockchains.
Solo Staker
A Qtum PoS miner using their own coins for staking. Qtum blockchain launched with Solo Stakers and will continue to have this available after offline staking launches.
Stablecoin
Cryptocurrency with a price peg to fiat currencies or commodity.
Staking
The state of locking-in significant amount of token to participate as a validator of a Proof-of-Stake network.
Stale Block
Double mined blocks that are not included in the blockchain.
State Channel
Secondary payment channel occuring off-chain
STO
Security Token Offering (STO) refers to a public offering for tokenized digital securities, or in short security tokens traded in cryptocurrency exchanges.
Stop-loss Order
Conditional market order to sell at the next available price, excuted if the price of an asset falls below set-upon limit
Super Staker
A Qtum Core wallet (full node) providing Proof of Stake for delegated addresses, and keeping a small part of each block reward as their fee for providing the staking services.
T
Tangle
The name for IOTA's Directed acylic graph (DAG) based transaction settlement layer.
Testnet
Shorthand for "Test Network", testnets are staging areas for experimenting new blockchain features.
Ticker
A ticker is a stock or asset symbol that abbreviates the asset name and it can be used as an identifier of the asset.
Token
Blockchain based unit of value issued by an organization, which grants token holders a right to participate in a network.
Token Burn
An event in which tokens are verifiably removed permanently removed from circulation.
Token Generation Event (TGE)
An event in which new tokens (ussually on a smart contract platform) are created and distributed to the public.
Total Supply
All the tokens and coins that will exist in a cryptocurrency network.
Total Value Locked
Total Value Locked (TVL) represents the number of assets that are currently staked in a protocol or the total quantity of underlying amount of funds that a DeFi protocol has secured.
Trading Volume
The amount of the cryptocurrency that has been traded in the last 24 hours.
Transaction Fee
A payment to the network for performing a transaction to be recorded on the blockchain.
Transactions Per Second (TPS)
It is number of transactions done per second. For example, there are 10 transactions of Bitcoin done in 1-minute. The TPS would be 10 transactions/60 seconds = ~0.17 TPS.
Trustless
Entirely verifiable, without needing to trust or assume an action is done completely and in good faith.
Turing-Complete
A "turing complete" code or blockchain refers to the ability to read program-written codes.
U
Unspent Transaction Output
(abbv. "UTXO") Coins that are unspent in the wallet. UTXO virtually represents the cryptocurrency one own in the wallet.
UTC Time
"Universal Time Coordinated", can be used interchangably with Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
Utility Token
cryptocurrency tokens with specific utilities on a network besides being used as medium of exchange and investment vehicle.
V
Validator
A block-signing participant of a Proof of Stake blockchain network, whom have significant tokens staked on the network.
Variable Buy/Sell Tax
On-chain buy sell tax rate that is not fixed, whereby it is possible for contract owners to change at will.
Venture Capital
capital (funds) that is invested in a company that needs a substantial pool of funds to initiate.
Virtual AMM (vAMM)
The vAMM functions similarly like an AMM but does not contain an actual asset pool.
W
Wallet
Software client that handles storage of cryptocurrencies and allows users to send cryptocurrencies.
Wallet Address
The address in which cryptocurrency can be stored, sent to and receive.
Wash Trade
Meaningless back and forth trading between a single party with the aim of inflating trade volume.
Watchlist
A personally defined list of values to watch over for activity or changes.
Web3 Wallet
Web3 Wallet is the software that allows you to interact with web 3.0.
Wei
The smallest fraction of an Ether, with each Ether to 1000000000000000000 Wei.
Whale
Someone who holds an enormous amount of cryptocurrency and has the ability to wave the market
When Lambo
An expression used by investors to ask when the value of their investment could buy them a Lamborghini
When Moon
An expression used by investors to ask when the price of a coin would hit a peak
Whitelist
List of approved participants that will be given access to a token sale (ICO, IEO, STO etc...)
Whitepaper
An introductory paper to consicely explain an issue and a possible solution on the issue.
Y
Yield Farming
Yield farming involves putting cryptocurrency into a DeFi protocol to collect interest on trading fees.
YTD
Acronym for Year-to-date
Z
Zero Confirmation Transaction
Another name for "unconfirmed transaction"
Zero Knowledge Proof
Cryptographic proof for 2 parties to verify a value without revealing what the value is.
Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge (Zk-Snarks)
An acronym for Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge, zk-SNARKs refers to a protocol where one can prove posession of a given piece of information (eg a string or hash) without revealing that information and also without any interaction between both the prover & verifier.
zkML (Zero-Knowledge Machine Learning)
Zero-Knowledge Machine Learning (zkML) integrates the principles of zero-knowledge proofs with ML.
zkOracle
A zkOracle is an advanced concept in blockchain technology that combines the properties of oracles with the principles of zero-knowledge proofs.






Altcoin. Any cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin.
ASIC. An acronym that stands for an application-specific integrated circuit. An ASIC is a powerful and expensive computing device used for mining cryptocurrency. (See mining.)
B
Bitcoin (BTC). The original, largest and best-known cryptocurrency.
Buy the dip. An investing strategy involves buying an asset when its price has fallen to reap the benefits when its price rises again.
Blockchain. The underlying technology is used by nearly all cryptocurrencies. A blockchain is essentially a complete ledger of transactions held simultaneously by multiple nodes on a network.
C
Coin. A colloquial term for a cryptocurrency. (See altcoin and meme coin.)
Cold wallet. A physical storage device such as a flash drive, hard drive or “solid state” drive used to store cryptocurrency offline.
Cryptocurrency. A digital asset that can be used as a store of value or a medium of exchange for goods and services. Transactions are verified and recorded using cryptography by a distributed network of participants, rather than a centralized authority such as a bank or government agency.
Cryptography. A method of keeping information secret and secure by scrambling it into indecipherable codes. The information can only be decrypted and read with the necessary key.
D
dApp. Short for decentralized application, a dApp is an app that isn’t controlled by a central authority. Twitter is an example of a centralized app, with users relying on it as an intermediary to send and receive messages. A dApp is distributed on a blockchain, allowing users to send and receive data directly without an intermediary.
DeFi. Short for decentralized finance. Finance is traditionally centralized because it relies on trusted intermediaries. For example, if you want to send money to a friend or relative, you rely on your bank to send it to the recipient’s bank. DeFi, on the other hand, requires no intermediaries. Participants can send and receive assets directly. In theory, this makes transactions faster and cheaper.
DAO. An acronym that stands for a decentralized autonomous organization. A DAO is a group of people who work together toward a shared goal and abide by rules written into the project’s self-executing computer code. Bitcoin (the project, not the currency) is the earliest example of a DAO.
Distributed ledger. In traditional finance, an organization such as a bank holds a ledger of all its customers’ transactions. Distributed ledges use nodes, or independent computers, to record, share, synchronize transactions on the electronic ledger. A blockchain is a type of distributed ledger.
Double spend. If you spend $5 in cash to pay for a sandwich, you no longer own the $5 and cannot spend it a second time. Even with digital transactions, centralized authorities, such as banks, only permit people to spend their money one time. With decentralized financial tokens like cryptocurrencies, a single coin could be copied 100 times and spent 100 times. Blockchain helps solve and prevent this double-spend problem.
E
Exchange. A website or app that allows users to buy and sell crypto assets.
Ether (ETH). The native cryptocurrency token of the Ethereum platform
Ethereum. The second-biggest cryptocurrency by market capitalization after Bitcoin.
Encryption. The process of making digital information into a form that prevents unauthorized access. If you use a password to access a website, the site should be encrypting it so that it is of no use to hackers if stolen.
F
Fiat currency. Traditional currencies are backed by the full faith and credit of a nation state. The U.S. dollar, the euro or the British pound are fiat currencies.
Fork. The process by which the community that runs an individual cryptocurrency makes a change to the blockchain’s governing protocols. The change marks a major departure—a fork, if you will—from the previous iteration of the blockchain. Soft forks typically involve a change in the software protocol, but one that is backwards-compatible. Hard forks are significant enough to require all nodes to upgrade to the latest version.
G
Gas. Transactions on the Ethereum network carry a fee. For every transaction, users must pay an amount of the native Ethereum currency, Ether (ETH). This fee is referred to as gas. Gas is used to reward Ethereum validators for the energy they use clearing transactions. Gas also serves as a deterrent against malicious use of the blockchain.
Graphics card. Verifying transactions on a blockchain via proof of work involves solving cryptographic puzzles. Solving these puzzles may require significant computing power, which in turn may consume substantial amounts of power. High-end graphics cards used in PC gaming have the processing power needed to validate transactions.
H
Hash. A hash is the result of a piece of data being put through a special hashing algorithm. It compresses data into a nearly unique alphanumeric string of text. This is important in cryptocurrency because a blockchain is an immutable record of transactions, and hashing  can uncover attempts to illegitimately alter or change data.
Hot wallet. A form of online storage for cryptocurrencies, provided either by an exchange or a third party. Since storage is online and accessed with passwords, hot wallets are typically a target for hackers. However, hot wallet operators can help users regain access to their assets if they lose their access codes.
I
ICO. An acronym that stands for initial coin offering. An ICO is the cryptocurrency equivalent of an initial public offering (IPO). It offers investors the opportunity to back a new crypto project.
J
Jager. The smallest denomination of Binance Coin (BNB).
K
Know Your Customer (KYC). Although not required, many crypto exchanges carry out certain identity checks on their customers under KYC rules.
L
Ledger. A record of transactions maintained by both centralized financial institutions and decentralized finance applications.  Data for each transaction entered into a ledger may include times, dates, senders and recipients.
M
Market capitalization. Also written as market cap, this is the total market value of a cryptocurrency. At the time of writing, all cryptocurrencies had a combined market cap of slightly less than $1 trillion.
Mining. Crypto mining is the process of verifying transactions via a proof of work consensus mechanism. Mining involves using computer hardware to solve a hash with trillions of possible combinations. The more computing power you have, the more guesses you can make within each given window of time, and the greater your chances of earning newly minted crypto.
Meme coin. An altcoin based on a meme, a kind of inside joke in the form of an image repeatedly altered and shared online. Dogecoin is an example of a meme coin.
N
Node. A computer or device connected to other computers or devices that all hold a copy of a blockchain. Each node supports the broader network by sharing information and validating transactions.
NFT. An acronym that stands for a non-fungible token, a digital collectible that uses the same underlying technology as cryptocurrencies.
O
On-chain. A transaction that occurs on a blockchain, reflected on the distributed, public ledger.
On-ledger currency. A cryptocurrency that is minted by and used on a blockchain ledger, such as Bitcoin.
Orphan block. A block that has been solved but not accepted by the network and isn’t added to the blockchain. Sometimes these blocks are referred to as “stale blocks.”
P
P2P. Short for peer-to-peer. Refers to a transaction between two people without an intermediary or central authority involved.
Private key. Also known as a secret key, this is essentially the encrypted password to someone’s crypto holdings. It’s an impossibly long number that’s practically impossible to guess. You authorize a transaction by signing it with your private key. Private keys can be used to access and manage your crypto assets.
Public key. The public-facing address of your crypto wallet. To receive funds into your account, you have to share your public key. Each public key pairs with a private key, and the private key is only known, in theory, to that user.
Proof of work. Commonly written as PoW, this is a consensus mechanism employed by many blockchains to prove that miners have done the computational work to guess the 64-character hash necessary to add a block to the blockchain. Broadcasting the solution allows other nodes to quickly verify that your hash is correct and that you have carried out the work required to get it.
Proof of stake. Commonly written as PoS, this is a consensus mechanism employed by some blockchains that requires verifiers to lock up, or stake, a certain amount of cryptocurrency to earn a chance to add new blocks to a blockchain. The more coins you stake, the better your chances of becoming a validator. Should you spend your way into the position to deliberately approve a fraudulent transaction, you risk losing your stake, providing a strong disincentive to cheat.
Q
Quantum computing. A computer science field that uses principles of quantum physics to process much larger data sets at much greater speeds than traditional computing methods.
R
Regulated. A market in which players must follow certain rules of risk fines and/or the loss of their operating licenses.
S
Satoshi Nakamoto. – The pseudonym for whoever penned the original Bitcoin whitepaper.
Satoshi. The smallest unit in Bitcoin (BTC). For example, 1 satoshi is equivalent to 0.00000001 BTC, a fraction of a penny.
Smart contract. A program that executes itself on a blockchain when certain conditions are met, without the need for human intervention or an intermediary. Once completed, the contract cannot be changed or undone.
SHA-256. A hashing algorithm that compresses data into an alphanumeric string that cannot be reverse engineered, keeping the original data secret and secure while being useful for validating input data. It was partly developed by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA), and is used by Bitcoin.
Seed. A random series of 12 to 24 words generated by your crypto wallet and used to gain access to it.
Stablecoin. A cryptocurrency that aims to maintain a fixed, unchanging market value that is pegged to another currency, commodity or financial instrument. As of this writing, the biggest stablecoins are Tether and USD Coin.
T
Tether (USDC). A stablecoin that is pegged 1-to-1 with the U.S. dollar.
Terahash. The rate at which a computer or network can guess one trillion hashes per second when mining for cryptocurrency.
Token. An individual cryptocurrency. Specifically, it’s a way to refer to a crypto that runs on a particular blockchain. For example, XRP is a token on the Ripple blockchain.
U
USD Coin (USDC). A stablecoin that is pegged 1-to-1 with the U.S. dollar.
V
Volume. The total amount of currency being traded in the open market at any given moment. In cryptocurrency markets, volume is typically referenced to in a 24-hour period.
Validator. Someone who pays for the chance to validate transactions and earn crypto on a proof of stake blockchain.
Volatility. A market condition in which prices frequently and unpredictably rise and fall.
W
Wallet. A digital storage device or location for keeping crypto assets secure. Wallets can be online (see hot wallet) or offline (see cold wallet).
Wei. The smallest denomination of ether. For instance, 1 ETH is the equivalent of 1,000,000,000,000,000,000 wei.
Whitepaper. A technical document released alongside new crypto projects that explains how the system works.
X
XRP. A cryptocurrency token that runs on the Ripple blockchain.
Y
Yield. A return on investment, expressed as a percentage.
Z
Zero confirmation. A transaction that has yet to be confirmed on the blockchain, and therefore, isn’t part of the the blockchain yet.




0x Protocol
0x is an Ethereum-based open-source platform for exchanging cryptocurrencies. It allows for the creation of features in a decentralized exchange (DEX), a wallet or a marketplace.
1hr
Stands for data for the past 1 hour.
24hr
Stands for data for the past 24 hours.
30d
Stands for data for the past 30 days.
401(k) Plan
A 401(k) plan is a retirement savings program sponsored by US companies where employees contribute part of their income and the employer matches the contributions.
51% Attack
If more than half the computer power or mining hash rate on a network is run by a single person or a single group of people, then a 51% attack is in operation.
52-Week High/Low
A 52-week high and low is the highest and lowest market price of a given asset over 52 weeks or one year.
52-Week Range
A 52-week range is a difference between an asset’s highest and lowest prices over the past 52 weeks.
7d
Stands for data for the past 7 days.
80/20 Rule (Pareto Principle)
The 80/20 rule, commonly known as Pareto Principle, states that 20% of your actions account for 80% of results.
A
Abenomics
Abenomics is the economic strategy implemented by Shinzo Abe of Japan and is comprised of three arrows: monetary policy, fiscal stimulus and structural reforms.
Abnormal Return
Abnormal return refers to the unusual profits from certain assets or securities over a specific time period.
Absolute Advantage
Absolute advantage is a situation in which a company can produce the same product as other companies using fewer resources.
Absolute Return
The term absolute return refers to the return on investment (whether positive or negative) obtained in a specific period of time.
Abstract
Abstract is something that exists in thought as an idea.
Abstraction Scalability
Abstraction scalability is the expansion in the overall ability of a system that allows programming components to be used as building blocks in a new development environment.
Accepting Risk (Acceptance)
Accepting risk, also known as risk acceptance, is a risk management strategy employed by companies to accept risks linked to certain events instead of investing resources to tackle them.
Account
An account is essentially a whose purpose is to track the financial activities of a specific asset/
Account Abstraction
Account abstraction is the process of making it easier for users to interact with blockchain by customizing certain elements of smart contract accounts.
Account Balance
Account balance refers to the amount in a bank/cryptocurrency account that can be accessed immediately. On the other hand, in accounting, account balance refers to the sum obtained from the difference between all debit and credit transactions posted to a company’s account.
Account Number
An account number is a string of numbers (and sometimes letters) that is used to identify a specific bank account and the account holder.
Accountability
Accountability is the requirement or readiness to assume responsibility for one's actions.
Accounting Conservatism
Accounting conservatism is a principle that necessitates the recognition of future expenses and liabilities immediately in a volatile situation rather than future assets and revenues.
Accounting Method
An accounting method is a system of rules applied to determine how and when revenue and expenses are recorded in an organization.
Accounting Token
Accounting tokens are essentially tokenized credit or debit entries (IOU/UOM), just like any spreadsheet-based accounting system.
Accredited Investors
An accredited investor is a person or organization that is qualified to participate in financial opportunities that are not legally offered to regular investors.
Accretion (of a Discount)
Accretion of a discount refers to the gain that is generated from the difference between the discounted purchase price and the face value of an asset.
Accrual Accounting
Accrual accounting is a method in which revenues and expenses are recorded in the year in which they occurred instead of when the payment is actually made.
Accrue
The accumulated interest, income or expenses over a period of time is known as an accrual.
Accrued Income
Accrued income is the type of income that has been earned but is yet to be received, it is in accordance with the accrual method of accounting.
Accrued Interest
Accrued interest is the amount of interest owed by or owed to a company on a specified date on a debt or a financial obligation that is yet to be received or paid.
Accrued Liabilities
Accrued liabilities are financial obligations that have not been credited from the company's bank accounts as invoices for these obligations have not been received.
Accrued Revenue
Accrued revenue rises when a business records sales without receiving payment for the goods or services sold as they do not invoice the customer at the time of the sale.
Accumulation Phase
The accumulation phase is a stage in the market cycle right after a downtrend, where the institutional investors start buying in tranches, signaling a positive uptrend soon.
Accumulation/Distribution Indicator
The accumulation/distribution indicator determines the supply and demand level of a stock/asset/cryptocurrency by multiplying the closing price of a specific period with volume.
Acid Test Ratio
An acid test ratio is a tool that gives an understanding of a company's ability to pay off its current liabilities.
Acquisition
An acquisition is buying out another company by purchasing a controlling stake
Acquisition Cost
Acquisition cost is generally the total cost to be paid for a company’s property, equipment or other assets after adjusting for incentives, discounts, closing costs and other necessary expenditures but before the sales taxes.
Acquisition Premium
Acquisition premium refers to the price difference between the price paid for a company and its assessed market value.
Active Management
Active management requires a manager, or a team of managers, to actively manage a portfolio.
Activist Investor
An activist investor is an individual or institution seeking to gain a controlling stake in a company to instigate changes.
Adam Back
Adam Back is a world-renowned British cryptographer, cypherpunk and crypto industry figure from the United Kingdom.
Adaptive State Sharding
Used by Elrond, Adaptive State Sharding is an approach that combines all types of sharding into one to improve communication and performance.
Address
A place where cryptocurrency can be sent to and from, in the form of a string of letters and numbers.
Administrative Expenses
Administrative expenses are costs incurred by an organization that includes, but are not limited to, benefits and salaries for administrative staff, rent and managerial compensation.
Adoption Curve
Adoption curve indicates the pace of adoption of a new technology by people. It may also involve segregation of the target audience to understand the market's willingness.
Advance/Decline Line (A/D Line)
The A/D line is a technical indicator that plots the difference between the advancing and declining issues in the stock market on a daily basis
Aeternity Blockchain
A blockchain network that works on a hybrid consensus approach; both Proof of Work and Proof of Stake.
Affiliate
An affiliation is a connection between two firms where one company has a small stake in the other company. The concept also applies to the connection between two companies that are owned by the same parent company.
Affiliate Marketing
Affiliate marketing is a kind of promotion technique where a business pays a person or entity a commission for promoting their goods and services in order to increase sales.
Agency Problem
The agency problem, also called the principle-agent problem or the agency dilemma, is the inherent challenge of persuading one party (the agent) to behave in the best interests of another party (the principal) rather than their own benefit.
Agency Theory
The agency theory discusses how to set up agency relationships in a way that minimizes the likelihood of disputes and other problems arising between agents and principals.
Agent
An agent is a third party that has been given the legal right to represent a business (the "principal") and enter into contracts on that business' behalf.
Aggregate Demand
In an economy, aggregate demand is the total demand for all finished services and goods produced by that economy.
Aggressive Investment Strategy
An aggressive investment strategy is a high-risk investment strategy that aims to generate the maximum possible returns in financial markets.
AI Agents
An AI agent is a program or a system that can perceive its environment, make decisions and take actions independently to achieve a specific goal.
AI Coins
AI coins are designed to streamline AI-related transactions and interactions, all while upholding transparency and security through blockchain technology.
Air Gap
If data cannot be accessed, then it cannot be infected or corrupted — this is the concept of an air gap.
Airdrop
A marketing campaign that distributes a specific cryptocurrency or token to an audience.
Airnode
Airnode is an oracle node and API blockchain gateway that is readily deployed by API providers who want to engage in the API3 blockchain protocol and put their data feeds on-chain.
Alan Greenspan
Alan Greenspan was the former head of the US Federal Reserve and served as the chairman for almost two decades from 1987 to 2006.
Algo-Trading (Algorithmic Trading)
Algo-trading is an automated trading system where buy and sell orders are placed according to the rules of a computer program or algorithm.
Algorithm
A process or set of rules to be followed in problem-solving or calculation operations, usually by a computer.
Algorithmic Market Operations (AMOs)
Algorithmic Market Operations (AMOs) automatically control the supply of algorithmic stablecoins while improving scalability, decentralization, and transparency.
Algorithmic Stablecoin
An algorithmic stablecoin actually uses an algorithm underneath, which can issue more coins when its price increases and buy them off the market when the price falls.
All Risks Coverage
It refers to a type of insurance coverage that automatically covers any risk that the contract does not explicitly omit.
All-Time-High (ATH)
The highest point (in price, in market capitalization) that a cryptocurrency has been in history. *see All-Time-Low (ATL).
All-Time-Low (ATL)
An all-time low (ATL) refers to the lowest price a cryptocurrency has hit during its trading history.
Allocated Gold
Allocated gold refers to a form of gold ownership where the investor physically owns a specific amount of gold stored in a secure vault on their behalf.
Allocation
Allocation is the allotment of equity or tokens that may be earned, bought, or reserved for a specific team, group, investor, institution, or another similar entity.
Allocation Efficiency
Allocation efficiency is allocating resources in a manner to optimize the efficiency of the organization
Allotment
Allotment refers to the systematic distribution or assignment of resources in a business to various entities over time.
Alpha
Alpha is a financial tool indicating an investment’s performance relative to its benchmark index in the market.
Alpha Version
Alpha version is typically a preliminary version of the software, released to test its usability and interface.
Alphanumeric
Alphanumeric phrases consist of both letters and numerals, or characters.
Altcoin
As Bitcoin is the first cryptocurrency that captured the world’s imagination, all other coins were subsequently termed “altcoins,” as in “alternative coins.”
Altcoin Trader
A person who trades cryptocurrencies alternative to Bitcoin.
Alternative Investments
Alternative investments are assets that have low correlation and can achieve different risk-adjusted returns than traditional equity and fixed income investments.
Amalgamation
An amalgamation is the merging of two or more organizations that should be recognized as separate legal entities by the jurisdiction’s laws.
Amazon S3
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3) is a scalable, high-speed, and inexpensive web-based cloud storage service to store and retrieve data anytime and anywhere.
Amended Return
An amended return is a revised version of your original tax return.
AMLD5
The European Union’s 5th Anti-Money Laundering Directive (AMDL5) is an update to the union’s Anti-Money Laundering (AML) framework.
Anarcho-capitalism
A political philosophy originally conceived by American economist Murray Rothbard that has now been embraced by many members of the crypto community.
Anchoring and Adjustment
Anchoring is the psychological phenomenon of having a preconceived idea of something and adjusting your decision-making around that preconceived notion.
aNFT (Autonomous NFT)
aNFTs (autonomous NFTs) are non-fungible tokens that can be programmed to initiate their own transactions. Every aNFT is a self-contained, self-executing entity that can be designed to do any on-chain action in response to any on and off-chain condition.
Angel Investor
A person who financially backs a new business venture or startup.
Animal Spirits
Animal spirits are the driving forces behind the economy that are not purely economic in nature but also include psychological factors, such as confidence and fear.
Annual Percentage Rate (APR)
The amount of interest a borrower must pay each year is known as the annual percentage rate (APR). The annual percentage rate (APR) is determined by multiplying the periodic interest rate by the number of periods in a year that the periodic rate is used.
Annual Percentage Yield (APY)
Annual percentage yield (APY) is the rate of return gained over the course of a year on a specific investment. Compounding interest, which is computed on a regular basis and applied to the am.
Annual Report
An annual report is an essential document for any company as it provides a detailed understanding of the firm’s financial performance as well as its future prospects.
Annualized Rate of Return
‍An annualized rate of return is a way to measure and track the performance of an investment over time.
Anonymous
Anonymity is when something is not known or named.
Anti-dump/Anti-Dumping Policy
In the world of blockchain, the anti-dumping policy is a set of rules that protects investors from falling victim to a pump and dump scheme, in which a large number of tokens are purchased by an investor (whale) to boost the token’s value and then dumped at a much higher price, resulting in losses to investors who purchased the asset later.
Anti-Fragile
A quality attached to an asset that means it performs better when exposed to volatility and shocks.
Anti-Malware
Anti-Malware is a type of application software that prevents, detects, and removes malware from computers & electronic devices.
Anti-Money Laundering (AML)
A set of international laws enacted to curtail criminal organizations or individuals laundering money through cryptocurrencies into real-world cash.
Antitrust Law
Antitrust is a collection of laws that prohibits unfair competition or monopolistic practices by businesses.
Antivirus
A piece of software designed to protect against malicious software and cyber attacks in general.
Antpool
Antpool is one of the largest Bitcoin mining pools and aggregates the computing power of many miners to increase the chance of solving a block and receiving the block reward.
Apeing
Apeing is when a cryptocurrency trader buys a token shortly after the token project launch without conducting thorough research.
API
API stands for Application Programming Interface. It is a set of routines, protocols, and tools for building software applications. APIs specify how software components should interact, such as what data to use and what actions should be taken.
Application Layer
The top-most layer of a seven-layered OSI model.
AR Token (Arweave)
AR is Arweave’s native token.
Arbitrage
Arbitrage is the practice of quickly buying and selling the same asset in different markets to take advantage of price differences between the markets.
Arbitrage Pricing Theory (APT)
The arbitrage pricing theory (APT) offers a framework for evaluating market efficiency and identifying arbitrage opportunities in financial markets.
Arbitrageur
An arbitrageur is a type of investor who exploits pricing inefficiencies between two different markets.
Arm Virtual Machine (Qtum)
Qtum’s arm virtual machine allows users to execute applications in a decentralized manner.
Aroon Indicator
Aroon Indicator is used to identify the existence, changes, and corrective retracements and gauge the strength of an ongoing trend in financial markets.
Ascending Channel
Ascending channels are trend continuation patterns that have an ascending price action as their main characteristic.
Ashdraked
The complete loss of a trader's total invested capital, specifically as a result of shorting Bitcoin.
ASIC
An acronym for application-specific integrated circuit — a device designed for the sole purpose of mining cryptocurrencies.
ASIC-Resistant
This term usually applies to blockchains and mining algorithms, designed to give no benefit for ASICs over consumer grade hardware.
Ask Price
The minimum price that a seller is willing to accept for an asset. The ask price is also sometimes referred to as the offer price.
Asset
Assets are the resources that an organization can use to generate revenue or benefit.
Asset Class
An asset class is a classification of investments based on common traits, behaviors and laws.
Asset Financing
Asset financing emerges as a financial stratagem, allowing enterprises to claim or employ assets by obtaining capital from lenders, such as banks or other financial establishments.
Asset Swap
An asset swap is a financial transaction where an asset is swapped with another for various purposes.
Asset-Backed Tokens
Asset-backed tokens are digital claims on a physical asset and are backed by that asset.
Asset-Based Approach
The asset-based approach takes into account the company's assets for valuation.
Asset-Based Lending
In asset-based lending, lenders have a vested interest in the value of a company’s assets rather than just its creditworthiness.
Assets Under Management (AUM)
Assets under management measures the total market values of all the funds controlled by an individual or financial institution on behalf of their clients.
Astroturfing
The practice of disguising marketing campaigns or otherwise sponsored messaging as the unprompted views of genuine community members.
Asynchronous
Events that do not occur simultaneously or at the same rate are referred to as asynchronous.
Atomic Swap
The transfer of cryptocurrency from one party to another, without the use of an exchange or other intermediary.
AtomicDEX
AtomicDEX offers a cryptocurrency wallet and DEX in one application that is available for multiple platforms.
Attestation Ledger
An attestation ledger is an account book designed to provide evidence of individual transactions. It is generally used to “attest” that a financial transaction took place, or to prove the authenticity of transactions or products.
Auction
An auction is a public sale through a bidding process where an asset is sold to the highest bidder.
Audit
An audit is a process where developers inspect the underlying code and/or algorithm that compose systems and applications.
Auditor
An auditor is a trained professional who conducts audits. They are typically employed by accounting firms or work within an organization's internal audit department.
Augmented Reality (AR)
Augmented Reality (AR) is an immersive experience that improves the value and usage of real-world items using computer-generated intuitive information sent through a variety of sensory modalities such as sound, touch, smell, and sight.
Authentication
Authentication is a process that confirms a user's identity using passwords, SMS codes, fingerprints, and other forms of ownership proofs before granting access to sensitive and/or personal information.
Authority Masternode (VeChain)
An authority masternode (AM) is a network-connected server that runs the VeChainThor full node program.
Automated Market Maker (AMM) [Updated]
An automated market maker (AMM) is a system that provides liquidity to the exchange it operates in through automated trading.
Autonomous Economic Agent (AEA)
A solution (software entity) by Fetch.ai and IOTA foundation that can take actions without external input using its own intelligence for the economic benefit of the owner.
Average Annual Growth Rate (AAGR)
It is the mean return of an individual investment, portfolio, asset or cash flow on an annual basis.
Average Annual Return (AAR)
Average Annual Return (AAR) refers to a percentage derived when reporting the historical return.
Average Daily Trading Volume (ADTV)
The average daily trading volume (ADTV) of stock or crypto is the number of shares/coins traded in one day.
Average Directional Index (ADX)
The average directional index (ADX) is a technical indicator that measures how strong a market trend is by using price moving averages and is represented by figures ranging between 1 and 100, where a larger value suggesting a stronger trend.
Average Return
The average return is the mean value of a sequence of returns generated over a specified period of time.
Average Selling Price (ASP)
An average selling price (ASP) refers to the amount at which a specific item is sold.
B
Back-to-Back Letters of Credit
Two letters of credit used consecutively to carry out a financial transaction through a third party are called back-to-back letters of credit.
Backflush Costing (Backflush Accounting)
An accounting method assigning costs to products after the completion of production.
Backlog
A collection of pending tasks in an organization is referred to as a backlog.
Backorder
An order that cannot be processed at the given time due to a lack of products available is called a backorder.
Backstop
An insurance agreement that offers security to unsubscribed shares of a company or a secondary source of funds in case the primary funds fall short.
Backtesting
Backtesting in cryptocurrency refers to using historical data to simulate the performance of a trading strategy.
Backward Compatibility
Backward compatibility allows new technology to interact seamlessly with older versions.
Bag
Crypto slang for a large quantity of a specific cryptocurrency. Alternatively (but less frequently) used to refer to the contents of an individual's crypto portfolio.
Bagholder
An investor who continues to hold large amounts of a specific coin or token, regardless of its performance.
Bail-In
Bail-in is a relief or rescue solution offered to a heavily indebted financial institution where the company's depositors, creditors or bondholders suffer a portion of the company's burden.
Bail-Out
Bail-out refers to a capital injection or resources given to an entity to prevent a potential downfall, including default and bankruptcy on its financial obligations.
Bait and Switch Scam
It is a sales strategy in which a customer is attracted to a product or a service at a low rate but is later encouraged to buy one at a higher rate.
Bakers
Baking is the process that Tezos uses in order to append new blocks of transactions to its blockchain.
Baking
Baking is a process that is used by Tezos in order to append new blocks of transactions onto its blockchain.
Balanced Fund
Balanced Funds refer to mutual funds containing stock and bond components in a single portfolio.
Balanced Investment Strategy
A balanced investment strategy attempts to balance the return and risk of a portfolio.
Balloon Loan
A loan that is not designed to be fully paid back by the end of the term and requires a balloon payment at maturity.
Balloon Payment
A large amount of money due at the end of the term of a balloon loan is called a balloon payment.
Bandwagon Effect
The bandwagon effect is the phenomenon in which a person’s decision is influenced by the majority.
Bandwidth
The quantity of data capacity available for transactional activity on a network is known as bandwidth.
Bank for International Settlements (BIS)
The BIS is an international financial institution that promotes global monetary stability.
Bank Run
A bank run occurs when most customers withdraw their cash from the bank out of fear of solvency and bankruptcy.
Banking as a Service (BaaS)
BaaS platforms provides a higher level of financial transparency options by letting banks open up their APIs for third parties in order to develop new services.
Banking Secrecy Act (BSA)
The Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) was implemented in the United States in 1970 to prevent criminals from concealing or laundering their illegal gains.
Bankruptcy
Bankruptcy is a state where an entity or a person cannot meet its financial obligations, such as debt repayment to creditors upon legal declaration.
Bar Chart
A bar chart is a graph used for data visualization and technical analysis in finance. It consists of vertical and horizontal lines arranged on a graph to give meaningful information.
Based Rollup
A based rollup is a type of Layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum that prioritizes decentralization and censorship resistance.
Basis Point
Basis point is a common unit of measure that shows changes in financial interest rates and percentages.
Basket
A basket, when used in the cryptocurrency space, refers to a collection of digital currencies managed as a single asset.
Basket of Goods
A basket of goods is a measure to assess the prices of consumer goods and services.
Batch Auctions
Batch auctions are a trading mechanism in which individual orders are grouped together and executed simultaneously.
Bayes’ Theorem
Bayes’ Theorem is a statistical analysis tool used to determine the posterior probability of the occurrence of an event based on the previous data.
Beacon Chain
A blockchain that coordinates shard chains, manages staking and the registry of validators in a PoS cryptocurrency, such as Ethereum 2.0.
Bear
Someone who believes that prices in a given market will decline over an extended period. Such a person might be referred to as “bearish.”
Bear Call Spread
A vertical spread with two calls of different rates but at the same expiration date is known as a bear call spread.
Bear Hug
A hostile takeover strategy, where a company is offered to be bought at a higher than target rate.
Bear Market
When prices of assets in a market fall by 20% or more from recent highs, it is called a bear market. As a result, investor confidence is low, and the economy and market turn pessimistic.
Bear Trap
The attempted manipulation of a specific cryptocurrency’s price, based on the coordinated activity of a group of traders.
Bearwhale
A bearwhale is a person who has a high number of cryptocurrencies and uses their massive account to drive the price down and profit out of it. 
Behavioral Finance
Behavioral finance is a branch of finance that combines psychology and economics to explain how human emotions and cognitive biases influence financial decisions.
Benchmark
Benchmarking is a method of comparing the performance of your asset or investment portfolio to that of similar assets to see whether there is a gap that can be bridged by increasing performance indicators.
Benchmark Index
A benchmark index is a popular index security that is used as a gauge or benchmark, against which the progress of the broader market may be tracked.
Benefit-Cost Ratio
The benefit-cost ratio (BCR) is a profitability indicator used in cost-benefit analysis to determine the viability of cash flows generated from an asset or project.
BEP-2 (Binance Chain Tokenization Standard)
A technical standard for tokens on Binance Chain.
BEP-20
BEP-20 is a BNB Chain token standard created with the intention of extending ERC-20.
BEP-721
BEP-721 is a Binance Smart Chain (BSC) token standard that enables the generation of non-fungible tokens (NFTs). It is considered to be an extension of ERC-721 that is one of the most popular NFT standards.
BEP-95 (Bruno Hard Fork Upgrade)
Binance Evolution Protocol (BEP-95) is a Bruno hard fork upgrade that aims to speed up the BNB token burning process.
Beta (Release)
A software pre-release stage where its access is offered to a set number of users & third-party software testers for testing it under real-world settings.
Bid Price
The cost that someone is willing to pay for a security, asset, commodity, service, or contract is referred to as a bid price.
Bid-Ask Spread
Bid-ask spread is the difference between the highest price which a buyer is willing to pay for an asset as well as the lowest price that a seller is willing to accept.
Big Tech
The four or five biggest technological corporations, particularly Facebook, Apple, Google, and Amazon, are referred to as "Big Tech" as they enjoy the biggest shares in their respective industries.
Binance Chain Explorer
Binance Chain Explorer is a web-based platform that provides access to information and data related to the BNB Chain.
Binance Labs
Binance Labs is a project to nurture, invest in, and develop blockchain and cryptocurrency businesses, initiatives, and communities, as well as a social impact fund.
Binance Launchpad
Binance Launchpad offers crypto-startups a platform to raise capital and market their projects to millions of crypto investors in the Binance ecosystem.
Binary Code
Binary code is a two-symbol system that is based on numbers, "0" and "1," to represent text, computer processor commands, or any other type of data.
Bit
A bit is a basic unit of information in computing.
Bitcoin 3.0
Bitcoin 3.0 represents the next evolutionary phase of Bitcoin mining, characterized by its potential to become a responsible partner in both the energy and financial ecosystems.
Bitcoin ATM (BTM)
An automated teller machine (ATM or cashpoint) that allows the user to buy and sell Bitcoin.
Bitcoin Compounding
Bitcoin compounding is the process of growing Bitcoin holdings by converting any rewards or yield earned across both centralized and decentralized networks back into BTC and reinvesting them.
Bitcoin DApps
Decentralized applications (DApps) running on Bitcoin-powered blockchains while benefiting from the core features of the Bitcoin network are known as Bitcoin DApps.
Bitcoin Dominance (BTCD)
Bitcoin Dominance is a metric that determines how much share of the overall crypto market share is owned by Bitcoin.
Bitcoin ETF
A Bitcoin ETF, or exchange-traded fund, is a type of investment fund that tracks the price of Bitcoin and allows investors to buy and sell shares of the fund on an exchange.
Bitcoin Halving
Bitcoin halving is an event in which the total rewards per confirmed block halves.
Bitcoin Improvement Proposal (BIP)
The standard format for documents proposing changes to Bitcoin.
Bitcoin Misery Index (BMI)
The Bitcoin Misery Index (BMI) is used by investors as an investment tool that ranges from 0 to 100.
Bitcoin NFTs
Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) minted on Bitcoin-powered blockchains and secured by the Bitcoin network are known as Bitcoin NFTs.
Bitcoin Pizza
Bitcoin Pizza refers to the infamous transaction where a guy, named Laszlo Hanyecz, paid 10,000 Bitcoins for two pizzas making it the first business transaction of Bitcoin in the real world.
Bitcoin Virtual Machine (BitVM)
BitVM, or Bitcoin Virtual Machine, is a proposed system described in a whitepaper by Robin Linus that allows complex computations and smart contracts to be executed on the Bitcoin network.
Bitcoiner
A person who is bullish on Bitcoin.
Bitcointalk
Bitcointalk is the most popular online forum dedicated to Bitcoin, cryptocurrency and blockchain technology.
BitLicense
A business license permitting regulated virtual currency activities, issued by the New York State Department of Financial Services.
BitPay
BitPay is a Bitcoin payment service provider.
Bits
A commonly used unit, or subdivision, of a single Bitcoin.
Bitstream
Configuration data loaded onto an FPGA is called Bitstream.
Black Hat Hacker
Black hat hackers usually use malware to penetrate into computerized networks and systems to steal data.
Black Swan Event
A black swan event, also known as black swan occurrences, is a metaphor for an unexpected event that has a significant impact.
Black-Scholes Model
In simple terms, it is a mathematical formula that gives the fair price of stock options, allowing investors to calculate whether they are overvalued or undervalued.
Blake-256
Used in Decred, Blake-256 is a hash algorithm designed by Jean-Philippe Aumasson, Luca Henzen, Willi Meier, and Raphael C.-W. Phan.
Block
A file containing information on transactions completed during a given time period. Blocks are the constituent parts of a blockchain.
Block Explorer
An application enabling a user to view details of blocks on a given blockchain. Also known as a blockchain browser.
Block Header
A block header is a unique identifier for a block on a blockchain that is hashed on a continuous basis to supply proof-of-work for mining incentives.
Block Height
A value describing the number of blocks preceding a given block in the blockchain.
Block Lattice (Nano)
The block lattice is a data structure that replaces the traditional blockchain used by most cryptocurrencies with a network of individual blockchains, one for each user.
Block Producer
A block producer (BP) is a person or group whose hardware is chosen to verify a block's transactions and begin the next block on most Proof-of-Stake (PoS) blockchains.
Block Reward
The coins awarded to a miner or group of miners for solving the cryptographic problem required to create a new block on a given blockchain.
Block Size
In blockchain technology, block size refers to the amount of data about transactions a single block in the chain can carry.
Block Time
Block time refers to the approximate time it takes for a blockchain-based system to produce a new block.
Block Trade
A block trade is a large-scale purchase or sale of securities that occur outside of an open market. It uses blockhouse as a financial intermediary to aid investors with risk management.
Blockchain
A distributed ledger system. A sequence of blocks, or units of digital information, stored consecutively in a public database. The basis for cryptocurrencies.
Blockchain 1.0
Blockchain 1.0 is the first generation of blockchain technology, which focuses on cryptocurrency and decentralization.
Blockchain 2.0
Blockchain 2.0 is an extension to blockchain 1.0 as it introduced the concept of decentralization of business and markets through smart contracts and improved security and transparency.
Blockchain 3.0
Blockchain 3.0 is the final developmental stage of blockchain technology, which predicts global, institutional and enterprise adoption.
Blockchain Explorer
A blockchain explorer is simply a search engine allowing users to browse through blockchain records.
Blockchain Mutual Credit
Blockchain mutual credit is a framework within which stable cryptocurrencies can be derived from multilateral exchange networks.
Blockchain Transmission Protocol (BTP)
Blockchain Transmission Protocol (BTP) enables isolated blockchains to operate as a fully decentralized settlement layer by securely anchoring transactions using a protocol that is universal.
Blockchain Tribalism
Blockchain tribalism refers to people in the blockchain or crypto community becoming ideologically aligned with a specific blockchain or crypto.
Blockchain Trilemma
The blockchain trilemma is the set of three issues that plague blockchains: decentralization, security and scalability.
Blockchain-As-a-Service (BaaS)
BaaS offers the capabilities of blockchain technology to businesses but without the necessity of establishing and maintaining a dedicated blockchain framework.
Blockchain-Enabled Smart Locks
Blockchain-enabled smart locks solve many security issues and can be locked or unlocked based on the state of a variable that is embedded in a smart contract.
Blockweave
Blockweave is a data storage protocol that builds upon blockchain architecture. It utilizes a unique interconnected structure linking each block to the previous block and a random older block.
Bluesky Crypto Protocol
The Bluesky crypto protocol is a decentralized social network protocol, organized by Twitter, that allows several social networks to interact with other social networks, thanks to an open standard.
Bollinger Band
A tool developed by Bollinger to help in the recognition of systemic pattern recognition in prices; it is a band that is plotted two standard deviations away from the simple moving average, or exponential moving average in some cases.
Bonding Curve
A bonding curve is a mathematical curve that defines the relationship between the price and the supply of a given asset.
Bots
Automated software that can carry out tasks such as cryptocurrency trades.
Bottleneck
A bottleneck refers to a point where capacity becomes restricted, creating congestion and slowing the overall performance.
Bounty
A cryptocurrency bounty is a reward users receive for performing tasks assigned by a given blockchain or project.
Brave Browser
Brave Browser
BRC-20
Taking its cue from Ethereum's ERC-20, the Bitcoin blockchain's BRC-20 is an experimental token standard. Ordinals protocol supports the generation and transfer of fungible tokens.
Breaking
In the world of cryptocurrencies, breaking the forward compatibility of cryptoassets is seen in hard forks of a cryptocurrency.
Brian Armstrong
Brian Armstrong is the founder of Coinbase, one of the largest cryptocurrency exchanges in the United States.
Bridges
A blockchain bridge allows the seamless transfer of data or tokens between two different blockchain projects.
Browser Extension
A browser extension is a plugin for an internet browser that adds additional features.
Brute Force Attack (BFA)
An attempt to crack a password or key through automated trial and error.
Bubble
When an asset is traded at a price exceeding that asset's intrinsic value.
Bug Bounty
A reward offered for the identification of vulnerabilities in software.
Bug Exploit
A bug exploit is an attack that take advantage of a system's vulnerabilities.
Bull
A person that is optimistic and confident that market prices will increase, this person is also known to be "bullish" about the market or price.
Bull Market
A bull market in crypto and stock markets refers to a time during which the prices of assets grow dramatically. These markets act as a source of motivation for both investors and purchasers. This is not a permanent state, although it can linger for months or even years.
Bull Run
A bull run (also known as a bull trend) is a period of time in the financial market during which the values of certain assets are constantly rising.
Bull Trap
A bull trap occurs when a steadily declining asset appears to reverse and go upward, but soon resumes its downward trend.
Burn/Burned
Cryptocurrency tokens or coins are considered “burned” when they have been purposely and permanently removed from circulation.
Buy The (F*******) Dip (BTD/BTFD)
An enthusiastic exclamation by supporters of a cryptocurrency to buy while prices are at a low point.
Buy Wall
A buy wall is a disproportionately large buy limit order placed on a cryptocurrency exchange.
Byron Phase
Byron Phase is the first phase of Cardano that was released in September 2017.
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT)
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) is the property of a computer system that allows it to reach consensus regardless of the failure of some of its components.
Byzantine Generals’ Problem
A situation where communication that requires consensus on a single strategy from all members within a group or party cannot be trusted or verified.
Byzantium Fork
The Byzantium hard fork was geared towards making Ethereum's smart contracts suitable for usage in the commercial space and to increase the speed of the transactions with an enhancement in the security on its blockchain
C
C++
C++ is an extension of the C programming language that allows cross-platform developments and capabilities.
Call Options
Call options are financial contracts that give an option buyer the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a stock, bond, commodity or other asset at a specific price.
Candlesticks
A candlestick chart is a graphing technique used to show changes in price over time. Each candle provides 4 points of information opening price, closing price, high, and low. Also known as “candles” for short.
Capital
Capital is most commonly defined as the large sum of money you would use to invest.
Capital Efficiencies
Capital efficiency is the ratio that compares the spending of a company on their growing revenue and how much they are receiving in return in the way of profits.
Capital Funds
Capital funding is the money provided in the form of debt or equity to operate a company.
Capitulation
Capitulation is the process of selling assets or cryptocurrencies at a significant loss because you have lost hope or belief that it will ever increase in price.
Casascius Coin
A physical unit of Bitcoin that comes in the form of brass, silver or gold-plated coins.
Cascading Liquidations
Cascading liquidation refers to an event where liquidations pile on top of each other, resulting in a sudden price change.
Cash
Cash is the most liquid form of money: physical coins and banknotes in the most narrow sense of the term.
CashToken
CashTokens are a new set of opcodes that extend the capabilities of Bitcoin Cash to support new financial primitives in the form of fungible and non-fungible tokens.
Casper (Ethereum)
Casper is a project designed to implement PoS into the Ethereum network.
Cathie Wood
Cathie Wood is a top stock investor and the founder of ARK Invest, a $60 billion (assets) firm that invests in cutting-edge technologies, including self-driving vehicles and genomics.
CeDeFi
CeDeFi, or centralized decentralized finance, combines traditional centralized financial services with decentralized applications, merging conventional regulatory policies with modern financial products and infrastructure.
Censorship
Censorship is the act of altering, suppressing, or prohibiting speech or writing that is considered detrimental to the general public.
Censorship Resistance
Censorship resistance refers to the idea that no party can prevent anyone from participating in a given platform or network.
Central Bank
In contemporary economies, the central bank is responsible for the formulation and transmission of monetary policy, as well as for the regulation of member banks.
Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC)
CBDCs are digital currencies issued by a central bank whose status as legal tender depends on government regulation or law.
Central Ledger
A central ledger is a physical book or a computer file used to record transactions in a centralized manner.
Central Limit Order Books (CLOBs)
Central Limit Order Books (CLOBs) are trading systems, widely used in traditional finance (TradFi), that match buy and sell orders based on price and time priority.
Central Processing Unit (CPU)
A central processing unit (CPU) is the part of a computer that is in charge of interpreting and executing programs and coordinating the work of all other components.
Centralized
A centralized organizational structure is one in which a single node or a small number of them are in control of an entire network.
Centralized Exchange (CEX)
Centralized exchanges (CEXs) are a type of cryptocurrency exchange that is operated by a company that owns it in a centralized manner.
Centre (Consortium)
A member-based consortium by Coinbase and Circle to manage USD Coin (USDC).
Certificate of Deposit (CD)
A certificate of deposit (CD) is a financial product allowing customers to earn an interest rate premium after making a deposit.
Chain Reorganization
Chain reorganization is a process in blockchain technology that allows node operators to replace blocks and adopt new ones, in order to create new, longer chains of data.
Chain Split
Chain splits are another term used to describe cryptocurrency forks — the separation of a single original coin into several independently managed projects.
Change
Change — a concept relevant to cryptocurrencies that use the UTXO model — is the number of coins sent back to a user after they use their unspent outputs to initiate a transaction.
Change Address
In cryptocurrencies, a change address is where the change from a transaction is temporarily stored before it is returned to the sender wallet.
Changpeng Zhao (CZ)
Changpeng Zhao (CZ) is the founder of crypto exchange Binance.
Chargeback
A chargeback is the return of money to the payer of a certain transaction, most commonly one that was made with a credit or debit card.
Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) is one of the largest exchanges dealing in the trading of futures and options in the United States.
Chunk (NEAR)
Chunk is a fraction of each block produced as a result of sharding in the NEAR protocol.
Cipher
A cipher is any algorithm that can be used to encrypt and decrypt information.
Ciphertext
Ciphertext is a result of encryption that has been performed on plaintext through the usage of an algorithm
Circle
Circle is the Fintech firm behind USDC.
Circulating Supply
The best approximation of the number of coins that are circulating in the market and in the general public’s hands.
Client
A client is software that can access and process blockchain transactions on a local computer. A common application of this is a cryptocurrency software wallet.
Close
Refers to the closing price; similar to the same term used in stock trading.
Cloud
Cloud servers are typically located throughout different data centers all over the world.
Cloud Mining
Cryptocurrency mining with remote processing power rented from companies.
Co-Signer
A person or entity that has partial control and access over a cryptocurrency wallet.
Code
The action of coding is to write programming statements for a program.
Code Repository
A code repository is a digital library where developers store and collaborate on their codes with ease, like a code-specific Google Drive or Dropbox.
Coin
A coin can refer to a cryptocurrency that can operate independently or to a single unit of such cryptocurrency.
Coin Mixer
Coin mixers allow users to mix up transactions between different cryptocurrency addresses, so they become untraceable and cannot be followed back to the initial sender or receiver of the assets.
Coin-Margined Trading
Coin-margined trading is a form of trading where cryptocurrencies or any other form of digital asset serves as the base for all transaction and settlement purposes.
Coinbase
In mineable cryptocurrencies, a coinbase is the number of coins that are generated from scratch and awarded to miners for mining every new block.
Coinbase Transaction
The first transaction in a new block is a coinbase transaction in which the miner receives Bitcoins and mining fees.
Cold Storage
Offline storage of cryptocurrencies, typically involving hardware non-custodial wallets, USBs, offline computers, or paper wallets.
Cold Wallet
A cryptocurrency wallet that is in cold storage, i.e. not connected to the internet.
Collaborative Venture Building (CVB)
Collaborative venture building (CVB) is a process where multiple individuals or organizations come together to create a new company or collaborate on a product.
Collateral
Collateral is any asset that a lender accepts as a form of security to ensure that the borrower repays a loan.
Collateral Cap
Collateral cap is a security feature designed to diversify protocol-wide lending risk away from any one asset.
Collateral Factor
Collateral Factor is the maximum amount a user can borrow, represented in percentages, based on the total amount of assets supplied.
Collateral Margin
The collateral margin is the percentage of the total value of the investment that the investor must contribute in their own funds, while the remaining portion is financed by the broker.
Collateral Tokens
In cryptocurrency, collateral tokens are used as a risk mitigation asset when borrowing other types of crypto tokens.
Collateralization
Collateralization is the process of using one asset as insurance for securing a loan in a different asset.
Collateralized Debt Obligation
A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) represents a mixture of loans and assets that are offered to big investment firms with a lot of capital.
Collateralized Debt Position (CDP)
A collateralized debt position is held by locking collateral in smart contracts to generate stablecoins.
Collateralized Mortgage Obligation (CMO)
A collateralized mortgage obligation (CMO) is essentially a bundle of numerous mortgages combined in a package and sold to investors.
Collateralized Stablecoin
A “collateralized stablecoin” is a stablecoin that is entirely or almost entirely backed by collateral held in a reserve.
Commingling
Commingling of funds is a method of combining all funds from different investors into a single investment in order to maximize the benefits.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) is an independent federal regulatory agency responsible for regulation the U.S. derivatives market.
Community Takeover (CTO)
Community Takeover (CTO) in crypto refers to a situation where the original creators or developers of a crypto project abandon or exit the project, but the community of users and token holders steps in to take control of its development and future direction.
COMP Token
The native asset of the Compound protocol.
Composability (DeFi)
In DeFi, composability allows developers to combine different components of blockchain to create new applications and services.
Composable DeFi
Composable DeFi refers to the interoperability between different DeFi protocols. It enables a multitude of DeFi applications to work along and create a wide range of new use cases and financial products.
Composable Token
A composable token is an ERC-998 token, a standard extension to any non-fungible token, adding the ability for non-fungible tokens to own other non-fungible (ERC-721) and fungible (ERC-20) tokens.
Concentrated Liquidity
Concentrated liquidity greatly improves the capital efficiency for LPs and opens up the door to a whole number of liquidity provision strategies in the process.
Confidential Computing
At its core, it's a technology that enables data to remain encrypted and protected even while being actively used for calculations and analysis.
Confirmation
In cryptocurrency, a confirmation is a measure of how many blocks have actually passed since a transaction was added to a blockchain.
Confirmations
A cryptocurrency transaction is considered confirmed when it is included in a block on the blockchain. Each new block after the first one is an additional confirmation for that transaction.
Consensus
Consensus is achieved when all participants of the network agree on the order and content of the blocks in the blockchain.
Consensus Layer
The consensus layer is the backbone of any blockchain network, performing the vital role of facilitating agreement among nodes on the true state of the blockchain.
Consensus Mechanism
A consensus mechanism is an underlying technology behind the main functionalities of all blockchain technology, which makes them an essential operating feature of all cryptocurrencies.
ConsenSys
ConsenSys is a blockchain technology company that offers developer tools alongside enterprise solutions.
Consolidation
Consolidation in trading is when a crypto asset trades between two levels, and the market shows indecisiveness about the next move.
Consortium Blockchain
A privately owned and operated blockchain where a consortium shares information not readily available to the public, while relying on the immutable and transparent properties of the blockchain.
Consumer Crypto
Consumer Crypto refers to blockchain-based applications and services that are easy to use and seamlessly integrate into everyday life, regardless of technical expertise.
Consumer Price Index (CPI)
A Consumer Price Index (or CPI) is a type of index where the prices of a basket of goods and services are tracked to gain insights into market segments
Contract
In traditional finance, a contract is a binding agreement between two parties. In cryptocurrencies, smart contracts execute functions on the blockchain.
Contract Account
A contract account is an account that has a crypto balance and associated code.
Contract for Difference (CFD)
A contract for difference (CFD) outlines a buyer’s obligation to pay any price difference that might occur due to the shifting valuation of an asset.
Coordinator
In blockchain technology, a coordinator is a specialized client that allows nodes to verify the validity of their copy of the ledger against specific transactions.
Core Wallet
A core crypto wallet is able to contain the entire blockchain, rather than just a piece of a blockchain.
Corporate Treasury
A corporate treasury is formed to manage and control the liquidity, risk, funds, capital reserves, and other resources of a company to align with its short and long-term strategies.
Correction
A correction is a pullback of an asset’s price of at least 10% to adjust for over-valuation.
Counter-Terrorism Financing
Counter-terrorism financing refers to efforts to disrupt and cut off the money supply used to fund terrorist organizations and activities.
CPU Miner
Since mining requires computing power, the process of generating or mining cryptocurrency using a central processing unit (CPU) is called CPU mining (or central processing unit mining).
Craig Wright
Craig Wright is an Australian computer scientist associated with Bitcoin SV.
Credit Rating
Credit rating is a measure that allows banks and lending institutions to predict how capable you are of repaying your debt.
Credit Risk
Crest risk is the number representing the possibility that a bank or lending institution will lose money because a borrower cannot repay their loan.
Cross Margin
Cross Margin, also known as "Spread Margin" is a margin method that utilizes the full amount of funds in the available balance to avoid liquidations. Any realized profit & loss statement (P&L) from other positions can aid in adding margin on a losing position.
Cross-Border Trading
Cross-border trading in financial markets and trade finance represents the opportunity to trade globally using a local currency.
Cross-Chain
Cross-chain is a technology that enhances the interconnection between blockchain networks by allowing the exchange of information and value.
Cross-Chain Communication
Cross-chain communication between blockchains allows different protocols to verify data and transactions without the intervention of a centralized third-party service.
Cross-chain Contract Calls
Cross-chain contract calls allow information, cryptocurrencies or NFTs, which would otherwise be constrained to their own network, to move freely between blockchains via smart contracts.
Crowdfunding
Crowdfunding enables fundraisers to collect money from a large number of people through a variety of different platforms.
Crowdloan
The practice of new projects to raise funds through DOT or KSM tokens for slots on Kusama or Polkadot network.
Crypto Debit Card
A crypto debit card is a type of debit card that allows its holder to pay for goods and services using cryptocurrencies.
Crypto Invoicing
Crypto invoicing is the process of creating invoices for goods and services that need to be paid in cryptocurrencies.
Crypto Loan
A crypto loan is a type of secured loan, similar to an auto or student loan, in which you commit to an asset as collateral in order to secure financing.
Crypto Winter
Crypto winter is a period in the crypto market when prices of major coins fall dramatically from all-time highs.
Cryptoasset
A cryptoasset is any digital asset that uses cryptographic technologies to maintain its operation as a currency or decentralized application.
Cryptocurrency
Cryptocurrencies are digital currencies that use cryptographic technologies to secure their operation.
Cryptocurrency Money Laundering
Cryptocurrency money laundering is a method criminals use to legitimize and enshroud funds by changing fiat to digital currency and then routing it through many pathways. It is an attempt to lose any authorities who may be tracing the money.
Cryptocurrency Pairs
Exchanges utilize cryptocurrency pairs in order to facilitate the trade between different tokens.
Cryptographic Hash Function
Cryptographic hash functions produce a fixed-size hash value from a variable-size transaction input.
Cryptography
A field of study and practice to secure information, preventing third parties from reading information to which they are not privy.
Cryptojacking
The use of another party’s computer to mine cryptocurrency without their consent.
Cryptology
Cryptology is the scientific study of cryptography as well as cryptanalysis.
CryptoPunks
A collection of Ethereum-based non-fungible tokens.
Currency
Currency is a medium of exchange that defines value.
Currency Crisis
A currency crisis is termed as a financial emergency in which a country's fiat currency loses value, and investors become cautious of retaining/investing in that country's assets.
Curve AMO
Curve is a software that uses multiple cryptocurrencies to operate an automated market maker (AMM) service focused on stablecoins (cryptocurrencies programmed to mimic other assets).
Custodial
Custodial cryptocurrency businesses are the ones that are in possession of their customers’ funds for the duration of the use of their services.
Custodian
A custodian is responsible for safely holding assets for an institution or individual for a variety of purposes.
Custody
Custody is a financial institution's legal capacity to keep and preserve financial assets for its clients to avoid asset theft or loss.
Cypherpunk
The cypherpunk movement promotes the use of cryptography and other privacy-focused technologies to advance social and political progress.
D
Daedalus Wallet
Daedalus Wallet is a multi-platform, open-source, hierarchical-deterministic wallet that lets you generate an endless number of keys from a single seed.
DAO Summoning
DAO summoning is the act of creating or forming a DAO. The term is typically used in the context of forming a new Moloch DAO, though it can also refer to the formation of any new DAO.
Dark Web
A portion of the internet existing on darknets not indexed by search engines, that can only be accessed with specific software, configurations or authorizations.
Darknodes
RenVM is driven by Darknodes, a decentralized network of computers. In exchange for compensation, they offer their computing power and storage space to everyone with certain conditions.
Data Availability Sampling (DAS)
Data Availability Sampling (DAS) is a method that enables decentralized applications to verify the availability of block data without requiring the entire dataset to be downloaded by each participant.
Data Privacy
Data privacy refers to the area of data protection and security that is responsible for the handling of sensitive data.
Data Scraping
Data scraping or web scraping is the process of extracting information from a website into a spreadsheet or a local file on your computer or database.
Data Validation
Data validation is the process of clarifying the accuracy, integrity and quality of a set of data before it is used.
Date of Launch
A term used for when ICOs will put up their tokens for sale.
Day Trading
Day trading is the practice of frequently buying and selling assets in order to make a profit on intraday changes in their price.
Dead Cat Bounce
A temporary recovery in prices after a prolonged decrease.
Dead Coin
A cryptocurrency that is no longer in existence.
Death Cross
A death cross is a bearish technical trading indicator that occurs when the 50-day moving average falls below the 200-day moving average, indicating a big sell-off.
Decentralization Maximalism
Decentralization maximalism refers to the belief that decentralization is the best approach and lifestyle to such a degree that any form of regulation does not need to exist.
Decentralization Ratio
The Decentralization Ratio (DR) is the ratio of collateral value that is decentralized over the total stablecoin supply backed for those assets.
Decentralized
Decentralization refers to the property of a system in which nodes or actors work in concert in a distributed fashion to achieve a common goal.
Decentralized API (dAPI)
API services that are intrinsically interoperable with blockchain technology are known as decentralized application programming interfaces (dAPIs). This is an invention of the API3 protocol.
Decentralized Applications (DApps)
A type of application that runs on a decentralized network, avoiding a single point of failure.
Decentralized Autonomous Initial Coin Offerings (DAICO)
A method for decentralized funding of projects that introduces a form of governance in the ICO process, allowing backers to vote for the return of their funds if certain conditions are met.
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAO)
A decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) is founded upon and governed by a set of computer-defined rules and blockchain-based smart contracts.
Decentralized Currency
Decentralized currency refers to bank-free methods of transferring wealth or ownership of any other commodity without needing a third party.
Decentralized Database
A decentralized database is a modern-day storage solution that combines decentralized technologies with cutting-edge computing to randomly store data and files across multiple nodes, delivering high security and unmatched availability while being completely censorship-resistant.
Decentralized Derivatives
Decentralized derivatives merge the risk management and speculative opportunities of traditional derivatives with the principles of blockchain technology, creating a novel class of financial products.
Decentralized Exchange (DEX)
A peer-to-peer exchange allowing users to trade cryptocurrency without the need for an intermediary.
Decentralized Governance
Decentralized governance refers to the procedures through which a platform's disintermediated, equitable management is carried out for blockchain networks and dApps.
Decentralized GPU
Decentralized GPU infrastructure refers to a distributed network of graphical processing units (GPUs) that offers on-demand access to GPU computing power.
Decentralized Identifier (DID)
A decentralized identifier, or DID, refers to an ID that can be issued by an autonomous, independent, and decentralized platform that acts as a proof of ownership of digital identity.
Decentralized Marketplace
A decentralized marketplace, built on blockchain technology, allows traders or investors to trade with each other while eliminating middlemen. They are available globally and require no intermediaries to make trades possible. 
Decentralized Network
A decentralized network is a collection of interconnected but distinct elements that interact with one another without the need for a centralized power or server.
Decentralized Order Book
A decentralized order book is a trading mechanism where buy and sell orders are matched through a distributed network of nodes, rather than being centralized in a single location or controlled by a single entity.
Decentralized Payment Network
A decentralized payment network refers to a system where users, customers and vendors can exchange money without having to trust any third party to keep the network secure and operational.
Decentralized Social Media
Decentralized social media is a social media platform that is based on blockchain.
Decentralized Stablecoin
Decentralized stablecoins are fully transparent, non-custodial with no or partial third-party control.
Decentralized Vehicle-to-Everything (D-V2X)
D-V2X operates on a peer-to-peer network where nodes maintain copies of a decentralized ledger, ensuring data integrity and trust among participants in the V2X network.
Decryption
The process of transforming encrypted data back into a format that is readable by a user or machine.
Deep Web
The "deep web" is the part of the internet that is hidden from regular search engines.
DeFi
A movement encouraging alternatives to traditional, centralized forms of financial services.
DeFi Aggregator
A DeFi aggregator brings together trades across various DeFi platforms into one place.
DeFi Degens
DeFi degenerates. A subculture associated with a disreputable corner of decentralized finance known for pump and dump schemes.
Deflation
A decline in the general level of prices for goods and services in an economy.
Delayed Proof of Work (dPoW)
Delayed Proof of Work (dPoW) is a second-layer consensus security mechanism, designed to protect blockchains from 51% attacks threatening the integrity of the network.
Delegated Proof-of-Stake (dPOS)
An alternative to the Proof-of-Stake and Proof-of-Work consensus algorithms.
Delisting
The process of removing an asset/stock/cryptocurrency from a trading exchange is called delisting.
Demurrage
Demurrage is a fee charged for using an asset beyond a certain time period.
Dencun Upgrade
Dencun is essentially the fusion of two separate upgrades - 'Deneb' and ‘Cancun’ together targeting improvements across Ethereum's consensus and execution layers.
Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attack
A denial-of-service attack aims to temporarily make a computer or network service unavailable to its intended users.
Depeg
A depeg is a situation in crypto markets whereby a crypto asset that is expected to maintain a predetermined market value in reference to another asset loses its ability to do so. This can be triggered by various technical and market-based factors and usually has ripple effects that negatively influence market dynamics. In the worst cases, depegs can pose a systemic risk to the space.
DePEN
DePEN can be considered a vertical of DePIN, operating as a blockchain-powered ecosystem that facilitates the decentralized generation, distribution, and monetization of renewable energy
DePIN
Decentralized Physical Infrastructure Network, or DePIN is an innovative approach that combines the power of blockchain with real-world physical infrastructure to create decentralized, efficient, and community-driven networks.
Depth Chart
A graph that plots the requests to buy (bids) and the requests to sell (asks) on a chart, based on limit orders. The chart shows the point at which the market is most likely to accept a transaction.
Derivative
A financial instrument deriving its value from the value of an underlying asset.
Derivatives Market
A public market for derivatives, instruments such as futures contracts or options, which are derived from other forms of cryptocurrency assets.
Desktop Wallet
A desktop wallet is a type of software wallet that is usually non-custodial.
Deterministic Wallet
A type of cryptocurrency wallet in which keys and addresses are created from a single seed.
Dex Aggregator
DEX aggregators are a relatively new type of blockchain-based service that allow cryptocurrency traders to benefit from a large variety of financial tools in a single interface, often providing better liquidity and prices on different crypto pairs.
Dharma Protocol
An open-source stack for building debt markets on Ethereum.
Diamond Hands
Diamond Hands is a popular term on social media platforms. It refers to people who hold their coins even if their portfolio drops in value by more than 20%.
Difficulty
A measure of how hard it is to validate a new block on a blockchain.
Digital
Digital technologies are these electronic tools that have the ability to generate, store or even process data.
Digital Art
Digital art is art and media that is made by using digital technology.
Digital Asset
A digital asset refers to the digital representation of something of value.
Digital Asset Custodian
A digital asset custodian is responsible to look after digital assets on behalf of an investor or client.
Digital Asset Ecosystem
Digital asset ecosystem is a term that defines everything involved in the crypto space. From NFTs to futures, this terms sums up all the facilities offered and elements associated with the crypto universe.
Digital Barter Economy
Eliminating the inherent weaknesses of the traditional barter economy, a digital barter economy makes it easier to trade both physical and virtual items anywhere in the world.
Digital Commodity
A commodity that exists digitally, as opposed to in “meatspace.”
Digital Currency
A currency that exists only in digital form, as opposed to traditional physical currencies.
Digital Dollar
The term "digital dollar" refers to a possible digital currency issued by the US central bank (CBDC).
Digital Identity
Information used by a person or entity to identify themselves to a computer or network.
Digital Signature
A method for proving the authenticity of a digital communication.
Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA)
Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) is a signature algorithm, not an encryption algorithm, and uses public-key cryptography to generate digital signatures.
Dildo
No, not that. The red or green “candles,” or vertical lines, on graphs showing cryptocurrency market data.
Dip
A dip is when markets experience a short or protracted downturn.
Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG)
A way of structuring data, often used for data modelling, and increasingly as a consensus tool in cryptocurrencies.
Discord
Discord is a web-based communication tool or application primarily built to enable communication between gamers.
Distributed Consensus
Collective agreement reached among nodes in a network.
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Attack
An attempt by a bad actor to disrupt the operation of an application, server or network by flooding it with traffic.
Distributed Ledger
Distributed ledgers are ledgers in which data is stored across a network of decentralized nodes. A distributed ledger does not necessarily involve a cryptocurrency and may be permissioned and private.
Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT)
A database that is shared by multiple participants, in multiple places. The basis for blockchains.
Distributed Network
A network in which the data and applications are dependent on multiple sources, as opposed to one location.
Distributed Validator Technology (DVT)
DVT operates as a security system for staking validators. It spreads key management and signs tasks across multiple parties.
Distribution Phase
The distribution phase is the opposite of the accumulation phase. In this phase, the market moves sideways and is range-bound after experiencing an extended uptrend.
Diversification
Diversification is a risk-management strategy that mixes a wide variety of investments within a portfolio.
Diversified Proof of Stake
Diversified Proof of Stake is a variation of the popular PoS consensus mechanism that allows multiple assets to be staked on a single blockchain.
Documentation
Documentation is a part of token economies that stores all the details of an asset on the blockchain.
Dolphin
Someone with a moderate holding of cryptocurrency.
Dominance
A measure of Bitcoin's value in the context of the larger cryptocurrency market.
Dorian Nakamoto
Dorian Nakamoto is a Japanese-American physicist who some believe to be Satoshi Nakamoto.
DotSama
DotSama is a new piece of crypto slang, used to describe the Kusama and Polkadot ecosystems in just one word.
Double Spend Attack
A double-spend attack is a practice in the world of digital currencies where a user gains the ability to spend the same cryptocurrency more than once.
Double Spending
The potential for a digital currency to be spent twice.
dPoSec (Distributed Proof of Security)
dPoSec (Distributed Proof of Security) is a consensus mechanism designed to ensure that the blockchain network continues to operate even if a third of the nodes are compromised. It addresses the key challenges faced by the existing distributed network of nodes and validators.
Drawdown
The maximum reduction in value from the peak value for an investment or fund that has occurred over a period of time.
DRC-20
DRC-20 is a token standard on the Dogecoin network that allows developers and users to create fungible assets within Dogecoin's ecosystem. It is similar to ERC-20 on Ethereum.
Drivechain
Drivechain is a Bitcoin improvement proposal that aims to scale Bitcoin and add new features using sidechains.
Dual Governance
Dual governance refers to a two-pronged system of decision-making in a decentralized autonomous organization (DAO), where two distinct parties are involved in running the organization rather than one larger body.
Dual-Token Economy/Model (Two-Token Economy)
In the world of blockchain, a dual-token economy or model means a project with two tokens, one of which is used for utility inside the network and the other one as security to raise funds for the crypto project.
Dump
A sudden sell-off of digital assets.
Dumping
A collective market sell-off that occurs when large quantities of a particular cryptocurrency are sold in a short period of time.
Dust Transactions
Miniscule amounts of Bitcoin in a wallet — with a value that would be outweighed by the cost of a transaction fee.
Dusting Attack
An attack that aims to uncover the identity of a wallet’s owner, information that can subsequently be used in phishing scams.
DYCO (Dynamic Coin Offering)
DYCO (dynamic coin offering) is a new crowdfunding model developed by DAO Maker that employs utility tokens that are backed by USD.
DYOR
The acronym of Do Your Own Research — encouraging investors to complete due diligence into a project before investing.
E
E-Signature
An electronic signature, or e-signature, is any electronic mark (sign, sound, symbol, etc.) used in place of a physical signature in signing a document or contract.
Economic Utility
Economic utility is a term in economics that refers to the total satisfaction that a person can derive from consuming a good or service.
Edge Nodes
In computer science, an edge node is a computer that serves as an end-user gateway to form a connection with other nodes.
Effective Proof-of-Stake
Effective Proof-of-Stake is Harmony’s version of the Proof-of-Stake consensus mechanism that aims for both security and decentralization.
EIP-1559
EIP-1559 is an upgrade to the Ethereum network that simplified the fee market mechanism.
Electrum Wallet
A Bitcoin wallet for Windows, macOS and Linux with a simple interface.
ELI5
Short for “explain like I’m five” — a plea for simplicity when crypto concepts are being explained.
Elliott Waves
The Elliott Wave Theory is an essential tool for many stock and crypto market traders.
EMA (Exponential Moving Average)
Exponential moving average (EMA) is a technical indicator that highlights the recent price changes and data points of an asset/stock/cryptocurrency while keeping the older chart observations intact.
Email Spoofing
Email spoofing is a technique that is used in order to trick users into thinking that a message actually came from a different person.
Emission
The speed at which new coins are produced and released.
Encryption
Encryption is a method through which information can be made into code.
Enterprise Blockchain
Enterprise blockchain is the use of distributed ledger technology for non-speculative business purposes. Tailored for the needs of enterprises, these chains may be private or public.
Enterprise Ethereum Alliance (EEA)
A group of organizations and companies working together to further develop the Ethereum network.
Epoch
One entire run of the training dataset through the algorithm is referred to as an epoch in machine learning.
Equity
Equity is the funds that would be returned to a company's shareholders if all of the company's assets were dissolved and all debts were paid off in the event of liquidation.
Erasure Coding
Erasure coding is a method of storing data at multiple locations after doing its segmentation, expansion, and encoding with redundant information.
ERC 7512
ERC-7512 aims to standardize how audit reports are represented directly on Ethereum's blockchain.
ERC-1155
ERC-1155 digital token standard was created by Enjin and offers more security in comparison to older token standards. It can be used to create both fungible and non-fungible assets on the Ethereum network.
ERC-20
Tokens designed and used solely on the Ethereum platform.
ERC-223
ERC-223 is an Ethereum token standard that is powered by smart contracts that enable users to securely transfer tokens to a digital wallet.
ERC-721
A token standard for non-fungible Ethereum tokens.
ERC-7683
A universal standard that allows web3 apps to express complex multi-step cross-chain transactions as a single user request.
ERC-777
ERC-777 is a tradable token standard spun out from ERC-20 to enable a new way to engage with a token contract while staying backward compatible.
ERC-827
ERC-827 is an ETH token standard that addresses the existing limitations of ERC 20 when it comes to the implementation of calls in transfers and approvals in particular.
ERC-884
ERC-884 facilitates the creation of tradable ERC-20 tokens, each of which symbolizes a numberless share issued by a Delaware corporation.
ERC-948
ERC-948 is a new Ethereum token protocol that is designed to connect subscription businesses with customers and allows for subscription-based transactions.
Escrow
A financial instrument where assets or cash are held by a third party while a buyer and a seller complete a deal.
Esports
Electronic sports, commonly known as e-sports, is a term used for digital gaming competition, in which players battle against each other in an individual or team-based format often in a competition or event that offers huge monetary rewards to the winners. Some e-sports games are also available in a single-player mode.
ETH/BTC
ETH/BTC is a popular cryptocurrency trading pair that denominates the price of Ethereum in Bitcoin.
Ethash
Ethash is the algorithm utilized for the proof of work mining Ethereum and ETH-based cryptocurrencies.
Ether
The form of payment used in the operation of the distribution application platform, Ethereum.
Ethereum Difficulty
Ethereum difficulty plays a crucial role in maintaining the stability and security of the network, especially in the context of Ethereum's transition to a Proof-of-Stake (PoS) consensus mechanism.
Ethereum ETF
An Ethereum Exchange Traded Fund (ETF) is an investment tool that allows investors to get exposed to Ethereum's price movements through traditional stock exchanges.
Ethereum Improvement Proposal (EIP)
Ethereum Improvement Proposals (EIPs) describe standards for the Ethereum platform, including core protocol specifications, client APIs, and contract standards.
Ethereum Request For Comment (ERC)
Ethereum Request for Comment (ERC) is the protocol to introduce new improvements to the network by developers.
Ethereum Transaction
Ethereum transaction are cryptographically signed instructions to initiate a transaction to update the state of the Ethereum network.
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)
A Turing-complete virtual machine that enables execution of code exactly as intended; it is the runtime environment for every smart contract. Every Ethereum node runs on the EVM to maintain consensus across the blockchain.
Event Triggers
When a transaction is mined, smart contracts can emit events and write logs to the blockchain which the frontend can then process.
Exchange
Businesses that allow customers to trade cryptocurrencies for fiat money or other cryptocurrencies.
Exchange Traded Fund (ETF)
A security that tracks a basket of assets such as stocks, bonds, and cryptocurrencies but can be traded like a single stock.
Exit Scam
An exit scam is a trick where projects disappear (or shut down) after accumulating investors’ money. In other industries, this event occurs when a business stops shipping orders even if it is receiving payment for the new ones.
F
Fair AI
Fair AI is a new approach to artificial intelligence (AI) that has an emphasis on decentralization and equitability through rewarding individuals for their data and compute contributions.
Fakeout
A fakeout is a sudden and temporary move in a market that tricks traders into thinking that a trend is emerging when, in fact, it is not.
Falling Knife
A falling knife refers to the price dive of an asset and denotes a downward momentum of the financial market.
Falling Wedge
Falling wedges, also known as descending wedges, have a distinct downward slope and a bullish bias in comparison to symmetrical triangles, which have no discernible slope and no bias.
Fan Token
A fan token is a cryptocurrency issued by a specific sports team and allows its holders to participate in the governing activities and attain exclusive rewards & discounts.
FATF Travel Rule
The FATF Travel Rule requires virtual asset service providers to regulate information sharing for certain large transactions.
Faucet
A cryptocurrency reward system usually on a website or app, that rewards users for completing certain tasks.
Fee Tiers
Fee tiers refer to the fee structure that determines the amount charged when investors deposit or withdraw money and execute trades on a crypto exchange.
Fiat
Fiat currency is “legal tender” backed by a central government, such as the Federal Reserve, with its own banking system, such as fractional reserve banking. It can take the form of physical cash, or it can be represented electronically, such as with bank credit.
Fiat On-Ramp
A fiat-on ramp is a way to get cryptocurrency from fiat, or regular money.
Fiat-Pegged Cryptocurrency
A coin, token or asset issued on a blockchain that is linked to a government or bank-issued currency.
Fibonacci Retracement Level
The Fibonacci retracement method uses a set of key numbers called Fibonacci ratios to identify the support and resistance levels of an asset/stock/cryptocurrency.
Field Programmable Gate Array
Field Programmable Gate Array is an integrated circuit that allows customers or designers to reconfigure as per requirement after the manufacturing process.
Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
The FATF is a global organization that sets global standards to combat money laundering and terrorist financing (AML/CFT).
Financial Crime Enforcement Network (FinCEN)
The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) is a federal regulatory bureau of the United States Treasury.
Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre (FINTRAC)
The Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre (FINTRAC) of Canada is the nation’s financial intelligence agency.
First In, First Out
First in, First Out (FIFO) is an inventory method used to specify your cost-basis when calculating your taxes.
First-Mover Advantage (FMA)
The first-mover advantage refers to the launch of an innovative product or service which provides a head-start to a company by creating brand loyalty and penetrating markets before their future competitors.
Fish
Someone who has a small crypto investment.
Flash Crash
A flash crash is a market condition where an asset’s price falls very rapidly within a very brief time interval.
Flash Loan
A flash loan is a transaction in which a specific quantity of liquidity is borrowed and repaid in the same transaction or block.
Flash Loan Attack
Flash loan attacks are when malicious actors exploit a smart contract.
Flash Loans
Flash loans are a type of uncollateralized lending used in decentralized finance (DeFi).
Flashbots
Flashbots was launched as an independent research and development organization with an aim to lessen the adverse effects of the Maximal Extractable Value (MEV) extraction.
Flatcoin
Flatcoins are cryptocurrencies whose value is pegged to the cost of living, rather than fiat or commodity.
Flippening
A hypothetical scenario where Ethereum's market cap overtakes Bitcoin's.
Flipping
An investment strategy where you buy something with the goal of reselling for a profit later, usually in a short period of time.
FOMO
An acronym that stands for "Fear of Missing Out."
Fork (Blockchain)
Forks, or chain splits, create an alternate version of the blockchain, leaving two blockchains to run simultaneously.
Fork (Software)
When an entirely new program has been developed from source code, taken from an open source software.
Fork Choice Rule
The fork choice rule is a mechanism in Ethereum that allows nodes to agree on a canonical chain when the network splits into competing forks.
Fractional Stablecoins
A fractional stablecoin is one that is backed in two ways: collaterally-backed and algorithmically modified.
Fraud Proof
A fraud proof is a technological method that functions as a bond in a decentralized environment that uses Optimistic Rollups (ORs), which are sidechains that aim to reduce the costs and latency that dApps might encounter on a blockchain platform.
Front Running
Front running is when you place a transaction in a queue when you have knowledge of a future transaction.
FUD [2021]
An acronym that stands for “Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt.” It is a strategy to influence perception of certain cryptocurrencies or the cryptocurrency market in general by spreading negative, misleading or false information. *see FUDster.
FUDster
Someone that is spreading FUD.
Full Node
Nodes that download a blockchain’s entire history in order to observe and enforce its rules.
Fully Diluted Value (FDV)
FDV is the total worth or market cap of a cryptocurrency if the entire supply of tokens were in circulation.
Fully Homomorphic Encryption
Fully homomorphic encryption is a type of scheme where one can perform arbitrary computations on encrypted data and generate the same results as when performing those computations on the plaintext.
Fundamental Analysis (FA)
Fundamental analysis is a method of evaluating the underlying economic and financial factors that affect the value of an asset.
Funding Payments
Funding payments are periodic payments between traders. These are designed to reduce the discrepancy between the perpetual market price and the spot market price.
Fungible
In cryptocurrency, fungibility is when a coin or token can be replaced by any other identical coin or token.
Fusion Rollups
Fusion rollups are a blockchain scalability solution that combines the best of other L2 approaches such as Appchains and Shared Rollups.
Futo
Futo is an organization that develops and invests in decentralized technologies and companies.
Futures
A futures contract is a standardized legal agreement to buy or sell a particular commodity or asset at a predetermined price at a specified time in the future.
G
Gains
Gains refer to an increase in value or profit.
Game Channels
Game channels are the newest technological advancement in the world of blockchain gaming, as they enable fast gameplay by removing the wait time for block confirmations. With game channels, games and dApps can run off-chain securely, individually, and in near real-time.
Game Theory
Game theory is a way of creating a simplified interactive environment (a ‘game’) that allows researchers to model how people and entities will respond to certain actions.
GameFi
GameFi, better known as play-to-earn (P2E) games, is a rather new term in the field of both gaming and cryptocurrency industries. It references games that are designed with economic and financial aspects of blockchain and cryptocurrencies, enabling players to exert full control over their in-game assets to generate revenue.
Gas
A term used on the Ethereum platform that refers to a unit of measuring the computational effort of conducting transactions or smart contracts, or launch DApps in the Ethereum network. It is the “fuel” of the Ethereum network. *see Gas Limit and Gas Price.
Gas Limit
A term used on the Ethereum platform that refers to the maximum amount of gas the user is willing to spend on a transaction.
Gas Price
A term used on the Ethereum platform that refers to the price you are willing to pay for a transaction.
Gas Station Networks (GSN)
Gas Station Networks (GSN) allows you to build decentralized applications (dApps) which provide payment for transactions, so users do not need to hold Ether or ETH to pay for gas, easing their onboarding process and improving user acquisition and experience.
Gavin Wood
Gavin Wood is the co-founder of Parity Technologies, and one of the founders of Ethereum.
Gems
Gem is a term for relatively unknown low-cap coins that have immense potential or are grossly undervalued.
Genesis Block
The first block of data that is processed and validated to form a new blockchain, often referred to as block 0 or block 1.
Geotagged NFT
Geotagged non-fungible tokens (NFT) feature 3D versions of the street art alongside the corresponding geo-location. They allows art aficionados to own both the virtual and physical artwork without the need to remove the actual infrastructure it was originally painted on.
Geth
Geth, short for Go Ethereum, is a command-line interface that allows developers to run full Ethereum nodes, mine the cryptocurrency and execute smart contracts.
GigaChad in Crypto
In crypto, GigaChad refers to someone who consistently makes smart investment moves and maintains unwavering confidence in their trading strategy, especially during market downturns.
GitHub
GitHub is one of the most popular code hosting platforms, allowing developers to collaborate on various projects.
Goguen Phase
The Goguen phase of Cardano allows the development of smart contracts and DApps.
Gold-Backed Cryptocurrency
A coin or token issued that represents a value of gold; for example, one physical gram of gold equals one coin.
Golden Cross
A golden cross is a bullish technical trading indicator that emerges when the 50-day moving average crosses the 200-day moving average, signaling an imminent price rise of the asset/stock/cryptocurrency.
Google Authenticator
Google Authenticator is a software-based verification system that generates unique one-time codes that are time-based on your mobile phone.
Governance
In the world of cryptocurrencies, governance is defined as the people or organizations that have decision-making powers regarding the project.
Governance Token
A governance token is a token that can be used to vote on decisions that influence an ecosystem.
GPG Encryption
GNU Privacy Guard (GPG) is a popular OpenPGP (Pretty Good Privacy) implementation. It is an open-source alternative to PGP that encrypts and signs communications and data securely.
Graphical Processing Unit (GPU)
More commonly known as a graphics card, it is a computer chip that creates 3D images on computers, but has turned out to be efficient for mining cryptocurrencies.
Gray Swan Event
Gray swan is a significant event whose occurrence could be predicted, but the likelihood is low.
Greater Fool Theory
The greater fool theory was first discussed by professor Burton Malkiel. It suggests that there is always a “greater fool” that you can sell an overvalued asset to.
Green Candle
A green candle is an indication of the price closing higher than the opening price. The green candle is an indication that the overall sentiment of the market at the time of trading was bullish, or positive. A wide body with a small tail on top indicates a strong bullish movement in the market.
Group Mining
As opposed to solo mining, group mining is when multiple people mine together.
Gwei
The denomination used in defining the cost of gas in transactions involving Ether.
H
Hacking
Hacking is the process of using a computer to manipulate another computer or computer system in an unauthorized fashion.
Hal Finney
Hal Finney was a cryptographer and programmer who pioneered Bitcoin’s development and worked with Satoshi Nakamoto.
Hard Cap
A hard cap is the absolute maximum supply of a digital asset.
Hard Fork (Blockchain)
A type of protocol change that validates all previously invalid transactions, and invalidates all previously valid transactions.
Hard Fork Combinator
A hard fork combinator (first designed by IOHK) is a tool to combine protocols specifically on the Cardano blockchain after a hard fork has occurred.
Hard Peg
A hard peg is an exchange rate policy, where a currency is set at a fixed rate against another currency.
Hardware Security Module
A hardware security module is a type of computing device that secures digital keys and encrypts data.
Hardware Wallet
A hardware wallet is a wallet for cryptocurrencies that usually resemble a USB stick.
Hash
A hash is the output result of a hashing algorithm, which creates a unique, fixed-length string to encrypt and secure a certain selection of arbitrary data.
Hash Function
Any function used to map data of arbitrary size to data of a fixed size. *see Cryptographic Hash Function.
Hash Power / Hash Rate
A unit of measurement for the amount of computing power being consumed by the network to continuously operate.
Hashed Timelock Contract (HTLC)
A hashed timelock contract (HTLC) is an agreement between two parties that requires no trust between two users by offering special features to reduce risk.
Hashgraph Consensus Mechanism
The hashgraph consensus is an advanced and up-to-date version of the technology that enables consensus mechanisms.
Haskell Programming Language
The Haskell programming language is a standardized, general-purpose, statically-typed, purely functional programming language that came into existence in 1990.
Hedge Contract
A hedge contract is a form of insurance that investors use to hedge against the risk of financial loss. Typically, a hedge is designed to protect against price fluctuations in the market.
Hedge Fund
A hedge fund is pooled investment fund that employs a number of investment strategies in a variety of liquid asset classes.
Hidden Cap
Hidden cap is an unknown limit to the amount of money a team elects to receive from investors in its initial coin offering (ICO). The purpose of a hidden cap is to even the playing field by letting smaller investors put in money, without the large investors forming an accurate understanding of the total cap and adjusting their investment as a result.
Hierarchical Deterministic Wallet (HD Wallet)
A wallet that uses Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) protocol to support the generation of crypto-wallets from a single master seed using 12 mnemonic phrases. *see Deterministic Wallet.
Higher High
A higher high is when the price of a cryptocurrency closes higher than the previous day, which itself closed at a high.
Higher Low
A higher low is when the price of a cryptocurrency closes at a level that is higher than the close of the previous day.
HODL
A type of passive investment strategy where you hold an investment for a long period of time, regardless of any changes in the price or markets. The term first became famous due to a typo made in a Bitcoin forum, and the term is now commonly expanded to stand for “Hold On for Dear Life.”
Honeyminer
Honeyminer is a cryptocurrency mining app available for download on multiple devices.
Honeypot
A honeypot is a scam used in the crypto industry to trap victims and steal their assets or sensitive information.
Hostage Byte Attack
A Hostage Byte Attack is a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack against a user that stored its data on a malicious storage node and is asked to pay ransom to retrieve its data.
Hosted Wallet
A wallet managed by a third-party service.
Hot Storage
The online storage of private keys allowing for quicker access to cryptocurrencies. *see Cold Storage.
Hot Wallet
A cryptocurrency wallet that is connected to the internet for hot storage of cryptoassets.
Howey Test
A test used to determine whether or not an asset is a security.
Human Keys
Human Keys are cryptographic keys derived from what you are, what you know, or what you have. They are used to secure digital assets, protect privacy, and access the decentralized web.
Human-Readable Names
In computer programming, human-readable refers to making information able to be read naturally by humans and stands in opposition to machine-readable format - i.e binary.
Huobi BTC (HBTC)
Launched by Huobi, Huobi BTC or HBTC is a standard ERC-20 token pegged to BTC on a 1:1 ratio.
Hybrid PoW/PoS
A hybrid PoW/PoS allows for both proof-of-stake and proof-of-work as consensus distribution algorithms on the network. This approach aims to bring together the security of PoW consensus and the governance and energy efficiency of PoS.
Hydra (Cardano)
Hydra is a layer-two scaling solution for the Cardano blockchain that aims to increase the transaction processing capacity of the network by allowing multiple heads or channels.
Hyperinflation
Hyperinflation is defined as unrestricted growth in prices for goods and services in an economy. It happens when resources become limited, such as gas or food, and prices rise as demand outstrips supply.
Hyperledger (Hyperledger Foundation)
Hyperledger is an umbrella project of open source blockchains and blockchain-related tools started by the Linux Foundation in 2015 to support the collaborative development of blockchain-based distributed ledgers.
I
Immutable
A property that defines the inability to be changed, especially over time.
Impermanent Loss
Impermanent loss is when a liquidity provider has a temporary loss of funds because of volatility in a trading pair.
In-the-Money / Out-of-the-Money
In-the-money and out-of-the-money are options trading mechanisms that allow investors to benefit from additional tools to work with the market.
Infinite Approval
Pre-approving smart contracts to enable the platform to spend any amount of your coins.
Infinite Mint Attack
An infinite mint attack occurs when an unwanted entity or hacker mints an absurd ("infinite") amount of tokens within a protocol.
Inflation
A general increase in prices and fall in the purchasing value of money.
Initial Bounty Offering (IBO)
A novel way of launching a project that focuses on people contributing skills to a platform rather than money.
Initial Coin Offering (ICO)
Short for Initial Coin Offering, an ICO is a type of crowdfunding, or crowdsale, using cryptocurrencies as a means of raising capital for early-stage companies.
Initial Dex Offering (IDO)
An initial dex offering (IDX) is an alternative to an initial coin offering (ICO).
Initial Exchange Offering
A type of crowdfunding where crypto start-ups generate capital by listing through an exchange.
Initial Farm Offering (IFO)
Initial Farm Offering (IFO) helps DeFi projects raise capital through the farming feature offered by decentralized exchanges.
Initial Game Offering (IGO)
Initial game offerings (IGOs) provide individuals with an opportunity to invest in gaming projects at an early stage that have the potential to offer huge returns after their launch.
Initial NFT Offering (INO)
A crypto crowdfunding solution where projects can raise funds by listing a set of NFTs via a launchpad.
Initial Public Offering (IPO)
An initial public offering (IPO) is the process of a company offering shares for purchase on the stock market for the first time.
Initial Stake Pool Offering (ISPO)
The Initial Stake Pool Offering (ISPO) is a comparatively new crypto fundraising method exclusive to the Cardano ecosystem. Unlike existing fundraising models, ISPOs are more inclusive, decentralized, equitable, and secure.
Initial Token Offering (ITO)
ITOs are similar to initial coin offerings — but have more of a focus on offering tokens with intrinsic utility in the form of software or usage in an ecosystem.
Input-Output Hong Kong (IOHK)
Now Input-Output Global, Input-Output Hong Kong (IOHK) was launched in 2015 by Charles Hoskinson to provide a blockchain infrastructure to research & engineering companies.
Insider Trading
Insider trading happens when someone purchases or sells stocks while possessing private, material information about that stock.
Instamine
When a large portion of a coin’s total supply is distributed to investors shortly after launch.
Instant Settlement Network Layer
Instant settlement network allows participants to exchange digital assets in real-time from anywhere in the world.
Institutional Investor
An Institutional Investor is an organization or a legal entity that trades in the market on behalf of its clients that may be retail investors.
Insurance Fund
An exchange insurance fund is used to cover any unexpected losses from leveraged trading. This fund is used to prevent traders from bankruptcy in the event of liquidations.
Integrated Application
Integrated Applications combine the advantages of appchains (customizability, performance, interoperability) and smart contracts (composability, standardization, minimal overhead) to enable developers to build better applications that can onboard users from anywhere.
Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
An integrated development environment (IDE) is a type of software that helps you develop apps by merging many development tools into a single graphical user interface (GUI).
Intellectual Property (IP)
Intellectual property (IP) is a type of property that can be legally protected from being copied or sold – it includes intangible creations that result from human thinking such as a book, song, design, business method, or software.
Intent
An intent refers to a user’s desired endstate or goal within an ecosystem.
Inter-Blockchain Communication (IBC)
Inter-Blockchain Communication (IBC) is a communication protocol that allows different blockchains to relay messages to each other.
Intercontinental Exchange (ICE)
The Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) is an American company founded in 2000 to purchase and operate global exchanges and clearing houses.
Interest Rates
A time-dependent charge or return made in proportion to the amount of money deposited, borrowed or lent.
Intermediary/Middleman
A person or entity that acts as the go-between different parties to bring about agreements or carry out directives.
Internal Transaction
An internal transaction, also known as a "message," is a byproduct of an EOA interaction with a contract address that results in Ether being transferred.
Internet Layer
Internet layer is the third layer in the TCP/IP model and is responsible for the transportation of network packets.
Internet Memes
A meme is an image, a video, or a piece of text that is copied and spread rapidly by internet users. They are typically humorous but can also be critical as well.
Internet of Things
Internet of Things (IoT) is a global interconnected network of devices, sensors and software that can collect and exchange data with each other in real-time over the Internet.
Internet Service Provider (ISP)
Internet Service Providers (ISPs) are commercial entities that provide end-users with access to the internet.
Interoperability
Blockchain interoperability, or cross-chain interoperability, is the ability to see and share information across multiple blockchains.
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS)
The InterPlatery File System is a peer-to-peer, distributed system for storing and accessing files, as well as websites and applications, which relies on content addressing rather than location.
Intrinsic Value
The intrinsic value of an asset depicts the asset’s actual worth based on a complex financial calculation rather than its current price.
Invest
Investing is when you put money in a financial scheme with the intent of making a gain.
Investment Vehicles (Crypto-tied)
Investment vehicles are the assets (classes) in which investors put their money with hopes to increase the value of their portfolio in the future.
IOU
An IOU, acronym for “I owe you,” is a document stating that one party owes a debt to another party.
IP Address
IP addresses are unique numeric addresses assigned to devices connected to the internet or a local network.
Isolated Margin
This mode is useful for traders who want to take speculative positions, and where there is a probable chance of their speculation turning out to be incorrect. In such a situation, the user will be better protected as compared to cross-margin mode because only their isolated margin balance will face liquidation, instead of their entire margin balance. The downside of using isolated margin is that your exposure will be limited to one position in a particular market.
J
Jager
The smallest denomination of Binance Coin (BNB) is called Jager.
Java
Java is a general-purpose, class-based as well as object-oriented programming language.
JavaScript
JavaScript is a powerful, dynamic, lightweight, and advanced programming language. It is mostly used in web-based applications.
JOMO
Joy of missing out (JOMO) is the opposite of having a fear of missing out (FOMO.)
K
Keylogger
A keylogger or keystroke logging software is a spying tool often used by hackers to record keystrokes made by users.
Kimchi Premium
Kimchi premium is a phenomenon occurring in South Korean crypto exchanges, making valuations appear higher than on other international exchanges.
Klinger Oscillator
The Klinger volume oscillator is a volume-based technical indicator that compares volume to price to forecast price reversals in the financial markets.
Know Your Customer (KYC)
Short for Know Your Customer, these are checks that crypto exchanges and trading platforms must complete to verify the identity of their customers.
L
Lachesis
The consensus mechanism of Fantom blockchain.
Lambo
Slang for the type of car that many crypto enthusiasts aspire to buy when their digital assets “moon” — or rise in value substantially.
Large Cap
Well-established projects and organizations having a market capitalization of $10 billion or above are called large cap or big cap projects/organizations.
LARP in Crypto
LARP (Live Action Role Playing) in crypto refers to a strategy where traders or influencers attempt to manipulate market sentiment through false narratives or manufactured hype.
Laser Eyes
Laser eyes is a viral Twitter meme that is used by Bitcoiners who attempt to push the price of BTC to its new all-time highs. It was originated with a hashtag, #LaserRayUntil100, back in February 2021.
Law of Accelerating Returns
The Law of Accelerating Returns is a hypothesis by Ray Kurzweil based on the observations that technologies (or any evolutionary system) tend to progress in an exponential fashion.
Layer 0
Layer 0 is a network framework running beneath the blockchain. It is made up of protocols, connections, hardware, miners, and everything else that forms the foundation of the blockchain ecosystem.
Layer 2
Layer 2 is the name given to a scaling solution that enables high throughput of transactions whilst fully inheriting the security of the underlying blockchain that it is built on. 
Layer-1 Blockchain
A layer-1 blockchain is a set of solutions that improve the base protocol itself
Leased Proof of Stake (LPoS)
Leased Proof of Stake (LPoS) is a consensus mechanism that allows cryptocurrency holders to lease their coins to nodes on a network.
Ledger
A record of financial transactions that cannot be changed, only appended with new transactions.
Leverage
Money that a trader borrows from a brokerage, enabling them to gain far greater exposure to a position than what their capital allows.
Leveraged Tokens
In the world of cryptocurrencies, leveraged tokens give you a leveraged position in trading, meaning that your earnings and losses are multiplied.
libp2p
Libp2p is an open network protocol for decentralized peer-to-peer networking.
Light Node
Light nodes are typically downloaded wallets and are connected to full nodes to further validate the information that is stored on the blockchain.
Lightning Network
A second-layer protocol that is designed to solve Bitcoin’s scalability problem by allowing transactions to be processed more quickly.
Limit Order
A limit order is a type of order to purchase or sell a security at a specified price or a better one. 
Limit Order/Limit Buy/Limit Sell
Tools that enable traders to automatically buy or sell cryptocurrencies on a trading platform when a certain price target is reached.
LINK (Chainlink)
LINK is an Ethereum-based token that is used to pay Chainlink node operators.
Liquid Market
A liquid market features a large number of buyers and sellers. It is a platform where all the trades are executed with ease and at a low cost.
Liquid Proof of Stake (LPoS)
Liquid proof of stake (LPoS) is an improvement over traditional proof of stake (PoS) that allows users to stake assets without fully locking them up.
Liquid Staking
Liquid staking allows users to stake tokens and simultaneously use them in the DeFi ecosystem.
Liquid Staking (Fantom)
A staking mechanism by the Fantom blockchain that allows you to earn yield by staking tokens for a longer duration.
Liquid Staking Derivatives
Liquid Staking Derivatives (LSDs) are tokens that represent staked assets in a DeFi protocol.
Liquidation
Liquidation refers to the conversion of an asset or cryptocurrency for fiat or its equivalents.
Liquidity
Liquidity indicates how easy it is to convert a cryptocurrency into cash quickly — and whether this can be achieved without the asset’s value suffering.
Liquidity Bootstrapping Pool (LBP)
A liquidity bootstrapping pool is essentially a contract that manages a core pool containing tokens to be used on an exchange.
Liquidity Hooks
A Liquidity Hook is a highly composable plugin for liquidity, enabling protocols to seamlessly integrate with platforms for capital access and developing yield/trading strategies.
Liquidity Mining
Liquidity mining is a mechanism or process in which participants supply cryptocurrencies into liquidity pools, and are rewarded with fees and tokens based on their share of the total pool liquidity.
Liquidity Pool
Liquidity pools are crypto assets that are kept to facilitate the trading of trading pairs on decentralized exchanges.
Liquidity Provider
Liquidity providers are decentralized exchange users who fund a liquidity pool with tokens they own.
Liquidity Provider Tokens (LP Tokens)
Liquidity provider tokens or LP tokens are tokens issued to liquidity providers on a decentralized exchange (DEX) that run on an automated market maker (AMM) protocol.
Liveness
A guarantee that a system will continue to provide data, and that no centralized authority can shut down its services.
LMD GHOST
LMD GHOST (aka the GHOST Protocol) is a fork-choice rule that allows the nodes in a blockchain network to reach an agreement on the valid state of the ledger.
Loan-to-value (LTV)
Used by lenders, loan-to-value (LTV) is the assessment ratio of risk involved while approving a loan. Simply, it is the ratio of the loan's value to the value of the collateral.
Location Swap
Location swap allows the change of claim to the assets manifested in the form of a token with no effect on other attributes.
Long
A situation where you buy a cryptocurrency with the expectation of selling it at a higher price for profit later.
Longing (Long Position)
A long position (longing) refers to the situation where an investor buys a cryptocurrency or any other financial instrument to sell it later when the price goes high.
Lovelace
The smallest denomination of ADA is called Lovelace.
Lower High
A lower high is when the price of a cryptocurrency closes at a high but lower than the previous day.
Lower Low
A lower low is when the price of a cryptocurrency closes lower than the previous day, which itself closed at a low.
M
Mainchain
A mainchain is the base blockchain layer where all transactions are processed and finalized.
Mainnet
An independent blockchain running its own network with its own technology and protocol.
Mainnet Swap
Mainnet swap refers to the shift of a cryptocurrency project from one blockchain network to another (which in most cases is its own native blockchain network).
Maker Protocol (MakerDAO)
The Maker Protocol allows users to leverage their assets as collateral that are approved by the Maker governance in order to get rewarded with DAI.
Malware
Malware or malicious software refers to harmful programs utilized by bad actors to illegally access and/or compromise a computer, network or server.
Man-in-the-Middle Attack (MITM)
a man-in-the-middle attack (MITM) attack is a general term for a cyberattack where a perpetrator positions himself in a conversation between two parties either to secretly eavesdrop.
Margin Call
When an investor’s account value falls below the margin maintenance amount.
Margin Trading
A practice where a trader uses borrowed funds from a broker to trade a cryptocurrency.
Market
An area or arena, online or offline, in which commercial dealings are conducted.
Market Balances
Market balances refer to the outstanding amount of tokens or coins after a trade has been made on a decentralized exchange (DEX).
Market Capitalization/Market Cap/MCAP
Total capitalization of a cryptocurrency’s price. It is one of the ways to rank the relative size of a cryptocurrency. *see Circulating Supply.
Market Maker, Market Taker
The maker places an order (to buy or sell at a quoted price), while a taker accepts that placed order (to execute the buy or sell at the quoted price)
Market Making as a Service (MMaaS)
Market Making as a Service (MMaaS) is a technology service that enables token issuers to set their strategies in market making, allowing them to trade and manage their own liquidity.
Market Order/Market Buy/Market Sell
A purchase or sale of a cryptocurrency on an exchange at the current best available price.
Market Signal
Through signaling, market participants are essentially creating a volatile market which can help to point out the opportunities to the investors.
Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA)
The Markets in Crypto-Assets (MiCA) regulation is a comprehensive regulatory framework instituted by the European Union (EU) to govern the issuance, trading, and provision of services related to crypto.
Marlowe
Developed by Input Output Hong Kong (IOHK), Marlowe is an easy-to-use programming language for experts with no programming expertise or knowledge, enabling them to write smart contracts for financial products.
Masternodes
Masternodes are a server maintained by its owner, somewhat like full nodes, but with additional functionalities such as anonymizing transactions, clearing transactions, and participating in governance and voting. It was initially popularized by Dash to reward owners of these servers for maintaining a service for the blockchain.
Max Supply
The best approximation of the maximum amount of coins that will ever exist in the lifetime of the cryptocurrency. *see Circulating Supply and Total Supply.
Maximal Extractable Value (MEV)
Maximal extractable value (MEV) is a measure of the profit a miner can make through their ability to arbitrarily include, exclude, or re-order transactions within the blocks they produce. 
Medium of Exchange
A medium of exchange can be seen as an intermediary instrument or system that is used to facilitate a sale, purchase or even trade of goods between parties. 
Megahashes Per Second
Megahashes per second (MH/s) is a unit of measurement that equals one million hashes per second.
Meme Economy
Meme Economy is a satirical online subculture in which memes are addressed in financial language as if they were commodities or capital assets with varying prices.
Memecoin
Memecoins are the crypto tokens created as a joke or meme and claim to offer huge gains to holders.
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is defined as a written agreement between two or more parties, which is legally-non binding.
Mempool
A mempool is the node's collection of all of the unconfirmed transactions that it has seen.
Mercenary Capital
Mercenary capital refers to the opportunistic capital provided by investors seeking to take advantage of the short-term incentive programs conducted by a platform for individual gain.
Merkle Tree
A tree structure in cryptography, in which every leaf node is labelled with the hash of a data block and every non-leaf node is labelled with the cryptographic hash of the labels of its child nodes. Hash trees allow efficient and secure verification of the contents of blockchains, as each change propagates upwards so verification can be done by simply looking at the top hash.
MetaMask
An online digital wallet that allows users to manage, transfer and receive Ethereum, operating as an extension to a regular browser.
Metatransaction
A metatransaction executes a transaction signed by another party on behalf of the original signer, ferrying this original transaction onto the public blockchain rather than the person having to do it themselves
Metaverse
A metaverse is a digital universe that contains all the aspects of the real world, such as real-time interactions and economies. It offers a unique experience to end-users.
Metaverse-as-a-Service (MaaS)
Metaverse-as-a-Service (MaaS) is a novel technological solution that anyone can use to build their own metaverses. The service provider offers the necessary infrastructure to enable both developers and non-technical users to create immersive virtual experiences alongside additional features like in-game tokenomics, NFTs, play-to-earn models, and much more.
Metcalfe’s Law
Metcalfe’s Law is a way of describing the use of networks and highlights that the more users a network has, the more valuable it is to each individual user.
MEV Protection
MEV protection refers to strategies and tools designed to shield crypto transactions from Maximal Extractable Value (MEV) exploitation.
Micro Cap
A digital asset with a very small market capitalization is referred to as a micro-cap stock/asset/cryptocurrency in the financial sector.
MicroBitcoin (uBTC)
One millionth of a bitcoin or 0.000001 of a bitcoin. Often confused as a fork of Bitcoin.
Microchain
Microchains are lightweight chains that operate in parallel within a common set of validators. In a microchain-based network, the role of proposing blocks is separate from the role of validating them.
Micropayment
A micropayment is essentially a small transaction that is carried out online and can be as small as a fraction of a cent.
Microtransaction
A business model where very small payments can be made in exchange for common digital goods and services, such as pages of an ebook or items in a game.
Mid Cap
Mid cap is a measure derived from a mathematical computation that determines the market value of a cryptocurrency with a market capitalization ranging from $1 billion to $10 billion.
MilliBitcoin
MilliBitcoin, also known as mBTC, is a sub-unit of Bitcoin which is equivalent to the one-thousandth of a BTC, the most famous and valuable cryptocurrency in the world.
Mimetic Theory
Mimetic theory explains human behavior and culture, and when understood contextually in economics, it deals with how things become desirable to individuals.
Mineable
Some cryptocurrencies have a system through which miners can be rewarded with newly-created cryptocurrencies for creating blocks through contributing their hash power. Cryptocurrencies with this ability to generate new cryptocurrencies through the process of confirmation is said to be mineable. * Not Mineable Some cryptocurrencies are generated only through other mechanisms, such as annual inflation through staking. These cryptocurrencies are said to be not mineable.
Minecraft
Minecraft is a video game where players can essentially create and break apart different kinds of blocks in a three-dimensional world.
Miners
Contributors to a blockchain taking part in the process of mining. They can be professional miners or organizations with large-scale operations, or hobbyists who set up mining rigs at home or in the office.
Minimum Collateralization Ratio (MCR)
Minimum Collateralization Ratio (MCR) is the least amount of collateral that needs to be pledged against a given loan.
Minimum Viable Product (MVP)
A minimum viable product (MVP) is a product that has enough features to attract early-adopter customers and validate a product idea.
Mining
Cryptocurrency mining is a process where blocks are added to a blockchain, verifying transactions. It is also the process through which new Bitcoin and *some* altcoins are created.
Mining Algorithm
An integral component of blockchain, a mining algorithm is the set of rules or instructions that a computer follows to generate a valid block.
Mining as a Service (MaaS)
Cloud mining or mining-as-a-service allows users to rent the mining capacity of hardware in companies.
Mining Contract
Another term for cloud mining, where users can rent or invest in mining capacity online.
Mining Difficulty
The mining difficulty of a cryptocurrency is how difficult it is to find the right hash for the next block.
Mining Farm
A mining farm is when a group of miners mine together for a variety of advantageous reasons, like energy use.
Mining Pool
An arrangement where a number of miners pool their resources to increase their chances of finding the next block.
Mining Reward
The income that miners receive after finding and validating a block.
Mining Rewards
Mining rewards are the rewards that crypto miners receive for mining a new block on the blockchain.
Mining Rig
Equipment that is used for mining cryptocurrencies.
Minnow
An alternative term to Fish, describing someone with a small crypto investment.
Minting
Minting is the process of generating new coins using the proof-of-stake mechanism and adding them to the circulation to be traded.
Mnemonic Phrase
A list of words used in sequence to access or restore your crypto assets.
Mnemonics
Mnemonics are memory aids with a system such as letters or associations that help in recall. *see Mnemonic Phrase.
Mobile Wallet
A mobile wallet is a crypto wallet installed on a mobile device.
Modular Proof Verification
Modular proof verification is a process where confirming the validity and correctness of a ZK Proof, one of the most expensive parts of running ZK rollups and ZK apps, is offloaded to a dedicated service.
Moloch DAO
Moloch DAO can refer to the DAO framework, a description of a DAO that uses the framework, or the name of the Ethereum grant-giving DAO that originally created the framework.
Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS)
The Monetary Authority of Singapore is the central bank managing money supply and regulating interest rates, inflation rate, and value for Singaporean currency.
Monetary Policy
Monetary policy can be defined as a set of rules that a country’s central bank makes to control the supply of money.
Money
Money is a widely used medium of exchange. It facilitates trade and gives people a way to store wealth.
Money Flow Index (MFI)
The Money Flow Index (MFI) is a technical indicator that measures the buying or selling pressure of an asset through price and volume.
Money Laundering
Money laundering is a technique used for illegal businesses to hide their money from the authorities.
Money Market
A financial market where short-term lending or borrowing takes place.
Money Transfer License
Money transmitter businesses need to acquire MTL or Money Transmitter License to be able to operate legally.
Money Transmitter
A business entity that provides money transfer services or payment instruments.
Monopoly
‍Monopoly is a type of market structure in which there is only one seller of a particular good or service.
Moon
A situation where there is a continuous upward movement in the price of a cryptocurrency. Often used in communities to question when a cryptocurrency will experience such a phenomenon, saying “When moon?” It is usually combined with “When Lambo?”
Moore's Law
Moore's Law states that computers' speed and capability will increase every year, even as cost goes down.
Motoko Programming Language (DFINITY)
The programming language for developing projects to run on the Internet Computer blockchain.
Move (Programming Language)
Move is a programming language initially used to build the Diem blockchain. It was created by the Diem Association, which was a tech consortium backed by Meta.
Move-to-Earn
One of the newest blockchain-powered innovations, move-to-earn is a concept that encourages users to stay physically active by incentivizing them with crypto-based rewards.
Moving Average (MA)
Moving Average (MA) is a technical indicator that reacts to the trends of the financial markets and is used by market experts to predict the direction of an asset's trend.
Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD)
A technical analysis method.
Mt. Gox
A crypto exchange for buying and selling Bitcoin that closed in 2014 after a major hack.
Multi-Chain
Multi-chain is a foundational term that promotes blockchain interoperability and decentralization.
Multi-Coin Wallet
A multi-coin wallet, also known as a multi-chain wallet, allows users to keep more than one crypto asset belonging to multiple blockchain networks.
Multi-level Marketing
Multi-level marketing is a business model that involves selling products on behalf of a company by unsalaried and hierarchical sales teams – earning commissions based on their sales and recruiting efforts.
Multi-Party Computation
Multi-party computation (MPC) is a cryptographic mechanism that distributes computation operations across several parties where no singular entity can see the other parties’ data.
Multi-Party Computation as-a-Service
Multi-party computation (MPC) as-a-service is a business model where consumers (enterprises and individuals) can rent MPC nodes from an MPC service provider instead of outright buying them or building them from scratch.
Multi-Signature (Multi-Sig)
An added layer of security by requiring more than one key to authorize a transaction.
Multiple Data Availability (MultiDA)
This blockchain architecture uses more than one data availability (DA) service to ensure data redundancy.
Multisignature
Multisignature crypto wallets require more than a single signature to sign a transaction.
Mutual Credit Line
Mutual credit is a multilateral exchange network in which money created endogenously within the network serves as a medium of exchange.
My Story (VeChain)
A digital assurance system built on a blockchain by DNV and VeChain.
N
Name Wrapper
Name Wrapper is a smart contract that allows all registered ENS names to be converted into NFTs, expanding their customizability.
Negative Volume Index (NVI)
The negative volume index (NVI) is a powerful technical indicator that shows how price is being influenced by low-volume timeframes.
Network
A network refers to all nodes in the operation of a blockchain at any given moment in time.
Network Latency
Network latency refers to the amount of time it takes for a computer on one network to communicate with a computer on another network.
Network States
A network state is a community that establishes a degree of post-Westphalian autonomy or sovereignty, which is then used to develop a self-governing society with its own culture, economy, rules, legal frameworks, and formal institutions.
Network-Enhanced Virtual Machine (NEVM)
A Network-Enhanced Virtual Machine (NEVM) combines the best attributes of the Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH) networks, enabling smart contracts to leverage unprecedented levels of interoperability and scalability to support broad mass adoption.
Newb
A newb is someone that is new to a certain industry.
NFT Royalties
NFT royalties are a way for creators to earn a percentage of the sale value each time their NFT is sold on the secondary market.
NGMI
NGMI stands for "Not Gonna Make It," and is a slang that's become increasingly popular in the cryptocurrency community. At its core, NGMI is a dismissive and pessimistic expression used to convey doubt, skepticism, or a lack of confidence in something – whether it's a particular investment, a crypto project, or even someone's trading strategy.
Nick Szabo
Nick Szabo is the inventor of Bit Gold and the use of smart contracts.
Nifty Gateway
Nifty Gateway is an NFT platform owned by the Winklevoss twins.
No-Coiner
A no-coiner is someone who has no cryptocurrency in his or her investment portfolio and firmly believes that cryptocurrency in general will fail.
Node
The most basic unit of blockchain infrastructure that stores data.
Node.js
Node.js is a cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment that can be used for both servers and desktop apps.
Nominators
Nominators are one of two main actors who are involved in a blockchain network that uses the nominated proof-of-stake (NPoS) consensus algorithm.
Non-Custodial
Usually referring to the storage of keys, in relation to wallets or exchanges, a non-custodial setup is one in which private keys are held by the user directly.
Non-fungible Assets
The term "non-fungible assets" describes non-fungibility within a collection of similar assets being issued by a single party.
Non-Fungible Token (NFT)
Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are cryptocurrencies that do not possess the property of fungibility.
Nonce
When a transaction is hashed by a miner, an arbitrary number meant to be used only once is generated, called a nonce.
Nonce Error
A nonce error occurs when a nonce - a number used only once - is misused or mishandled in a system.
Notarization on Blockchain
Notarization on blockchain simply uses the intrinsic nature and advantages of blockchain technology to let anyone create a timestamped artifact. The authorship and identity of this artifact can easily and securely be identified at any point.
O
Odysee
Odysee is a server-less video hosting and distribution platform built on top of the LBRY protocol.
Off-Chain
A transaction that is processed outside the blockchain network with an increased speed and reduced cost.
Off-Chain Governance
Off-chain governance is a type of blockchain governance in which decisions are made informally, away from the primary code base of the blockchain.
Off-Chain Transaction
An off-chain transaction is defined as a second-layer protocol where the transactions occur on a network and move value outside of the blockchain.
Off-Ledger Currency
A currency that is created (minted) outside of the specified blockchain ledger but is accepted or used.
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
The Office of the Comptroller (OCC) is a U.S. Treasury branch that regulates all national banks, federal savings associations, federal branches and foreign bank agencies
Offline Storage
The act of storing cryptocurrencies in devices or systems not connected to the internet.
Offshore Account
An offshore account is defined as a foreign bank account with assets and investments set outside of your origin country or country of residence.
OHM Fork
OlympusDAO or Ohm Forks represent the upgrades to OlympusDAO’s codebase that has given birth to a variety of forked products.
Omnichain
Omnichain refers to a blockchain infrastructure that leverages chain abstraction to facilitate seamless interaction, data transfer, and transaction settlement across multiple blockchains.
On-Balance Volume (OBV)
On-balance volume (OBV) is a technical trading indicator that forecasts an asset's price movements based on the volume flow.
On-Chain
Transactions that are recorded on the blockchain itself and shared with all of the participants are done on-chain.
On-Chain Governance
On-chain governance is a decentralized framework used for organizing and integrating updates/improvements to the blockchain networks.
On-Ledger Currency
A currency that is both minted on the blockchain ledger and also used on the blockchain ledger, such as Bitcoin.
Onchain Fiat
Onchain fiat is a first-of-its-kind, fully authorized and regulated subset of stablecoins that allows for seamless transitions between traditional bank accounts and web3.
One Cancels the Other Order (OCO)
A situation where two orders for cryptocurrency are placed simultaneously, with a rule in place to enforce that if one is accepted, the other is cancelled.
Online Storage
The act of storing cryptocurrencies in devices or systems connected to the internet.
Ontorand Consensus Engine (Ontology)
Ontorand Consensus Engine is the VBFT consensus mechanism on the Ontology blockchain.
Open Finance (OpenFi)
OpenFi, short for "Open Finance," is a financial framework that integrates traditional finance (TradFi) with decentralized finance (DeFi).
Open Interest
Open interest refers to the total number of outstanding derivative contracts, specifically futures and options, that are held by market participants at the end of each trading session.
Open Source
Open source is a philosophy, with participants believing in the free and open sharing of information in pursuit of the greater common good.
Open/Close
The price at which a cryptocurrency opens at a time period or the programming principle of software parts being extendable.
OpenSea
OpenSea is a decentralized P2P platform for NFTs.
Opera Mainnet (Fantom)
Opera (Fantom) is a permissionless, open-source framework that allows everyone to engage in the network through staking and governance.
Operating System (OS)
An operating system (OS) is a software and a resource manager that sits between the hardware and the user.
Optimistic Oracle
An optimistic oracle uses a dispute/arbitration process to ensure data accuracy. This compares to a price-feed oracle, which relies on nodes to provide consistent price feed data on-chain.
Optimistic Rollup
An optimistic rollup is a type of layer-2 scaling solution that relies on off-chain computation to record transactions in layer 2 trustlessly.
Option
A contract giving the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset or instrument at a specified strike price.
Options Market
A public market for options, giving the buyer an option to buy or sell a cryptocurrency at a specific strike price, on or before a specific date.
Oracle Extractable Value (OEV)
Oracle Extractable Value (OEV) is a type of Maximal Extractable Value (MEV) that oracles can control.
Oracle Manipulation
Oracle manipulation is when an oracle smart contract is manipulated by hackers.
Oracles
An agent that finds and verifies information, bridging the real world and the blockchain by providing data to smart contracts for execution of said contracts under specified conditions.
Order Book
An order book comprises different key information regarding an asset.
Orphan
A valid block on the blockchain that is not part of the main chain.
Orphaned Block
An orphaned block is a block where the parent block does not exist or is unknown.
Ouroboros Praos
Ouroboros Praos is a proof-of-stake consensus mechanism developed by IOHK and is an updated version of Ouroboros Classic.
Over-Collateralization
Over-collateralization (OC) is the provision of collateral that is worth more than enough to cover potential losses in cases of default.
Over-the-Counter (OTC)
Over-the-counter is defined as a transaction made outside of an exchange, often peer-to-peer through private trades.
Over-the-Counter (OTC) Trading
Over-the-counter refers to the process of how securities are traded through a broker-dealer network as opposed to a centralized exchange.
Overbought
When a cryptocurrency has been purchased by more and more investors over time, with its price increasing for an extended period of time.
Oversold
When a cryptocurrency has been sold by more and more investors over time, with its price decreasing for an extended period of time.
P
P2P Bridge
A P2P bridge is a feature on decentralized exchanges (DEX) that enables two users to swap the same cryptocurrency across two blockchain protocols without involving a third party.
P2P DEX
P2P DEX, or peer-to-peer decentralized exchange, is a blockchain-based application that supports P2P trading.
P2P Trading
Peer-to-peer (P2P) trading involves decentralized transactions where two users swap cryptocurrencies directly with each other. Both buyers and sellers interact without the involvement of a third party.
Pair
Trade between one cryptocurrency and another, for example, the trading pair BTC/ETH.
Paper Trading
Paper trading or simulated trading is the practice of using a virtual transactional environment to simulate trading without the use of real capital.
Paper Wallet
A physical document containing your private key or seed phrase.
Parachain
Parachains are application-specific data structures that run in parallel to each other within Polkadot.
Participation Node
Participation nodes are present in the Algorand platform to help in conducting the Pure Proof of Stake (PPoS) consensus process.
Passive Income
Passive income is money produced from investments that do not require the earner to be actively involved.
Password Manager
A password manager is a tool or software that stores all sorts of passwords needed for online applications and services.
Paul Le Roux
Paul Le Roux is a criminal kingpin that many believe could be the founder of Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto.
Payee
A payee is a party within an exchange of goods or even services that can receive payment.
Peer-to-Peer (P2P)
The decentralized interactions between parties in a distributed network, partitioning tasks or workloads between peers.
Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Lending
Crypto P2P lending refers to a practice of lending assets without the involvement of a middleman. Such loans rely on collateral material originally owned by borrowers.
Peg
A “peg” is a specified price for the rate of exchange between two assets.
Pegged Currency
A stablecoin is a currency whose value is pegged to a real-world asset, such as a fiat currency.
Permissioned Ledger
A ledger designed with restrictions, such that only people or organizations requiring access have permission to access it.
Permissionless
Often used to describe blockchains, a system is said to be permissionless when there is no entity that can regulate who can use it and how it can be used.
Permissionless Market Creation
Permissionless market creation refers to a system in which anyone can set up a financial market that facilitates the exchange of funds or assets between two or more parties without needing approval.
Perpetual Contracts
A perpetual contract is a derivative similar to a futures contract but without an expiry date.
Perpetual Futures
Perpetual futures are like futures (derivative contracts or agreements to buy or sell a commodity at a specified price) but without an expiration date. They allow traders to leverage or hedge indefinitely, popular applications of this include Ethereum or Bitcoin.
Phishing
When a scammer pretends to be a trusted institution or person to trick people into revealing sensitive information such as Social Security numbers, passwords, banking details, etc., often through a malware link disguised as legitimate.
Phone Phishing
Phone phishing, also known as a telephone scam or vishing (voice phishing), refers to the practice of using fraudulent and malicious phone calls to extort money or sensitive information from victims.
Physical Bitcoins
A physical Bitcoin is a physical token that usually has an intricate design, as well as a public key and private key.
Platform
On CoinMarketCap, platform refers to the parent blockchain of tokens. It may also refer to a cryptocurrency exchange on which you may trade cryptocurrencies.
Play-to-Earn (Play2Earn)
The play-to-earn business model supports the notion of an open economy and gives financial rewards to players who bring value to its metaverse.
Play2Earn (Play-to-Earn)
The play-to-earn business model supports the notion of an open economy and gives financial rewards to players who bring value to its metaverse.
Player Payout
Player payouts is a new way of automatically paying online gaming participants immediately after the tournament ends.
Plutus (Cardano)
The scripting language used on Cardano blockchain for smart contract development.
Politeia (Decred)
A decentralized governance platform that allows Decred stakeholders to submit, track and discuss proposals for suggestion and implementation of new ideas.
Ponzi Scheme
A fraudulent investment involving the payment of purported returns to existing investors from funds contributed by new investors.
Portfolio
A collection of cryptocurrencies or crypto assets held by an investment company, hedge fund, financial institution or individual.
Portfolio Tracking
The act of tracking the movement and performance of assets of your financial holdings is termed portfolio tracking. This monitoring activity can cover stocks, commodities, mutual funds, ETFs, cryptocurrencies and NFTs
Position Size
Position size is a vital part of a trading strategy, since it is directly related to one’s potential profit or loss. Sizing a position also plays an important role in risk management as knowing when to execute larger or smaller trades, and when to increase or reduce the size of a position impacts profitability.
Post-Mine
The retroactive creation of new coins following a cryptocurrency’s launch, before public mining is possible.
Pre-IDO
Pre-IDO refers to token offerings before the actual initial DEX offering (IDO) takes place.
Pre-Mine
When some or all of a coin’s initial supply is generated during or before the public launch.
Pre-Sale
The sale of a cryptocurrency, ahead of it going public, to specific investors.
Prediction Market
Prediction Markets are exchange-traded markets where the future outcomes of events are traded. It indicates the confidence of the crowd in a specific future event.
Price Impact
The difference between market price and estimated price due to trade size.
Private Blockchain
A private blockchain is a type of blockchain in which only a single organization has authority over the network.
Private Key/Secret Key
A piece of code generated in asymmetric-key encryption process, paired with a public key, to be used in decrypting information hashed with the public key.
Procedural Programming
Procedural programming refers to a series of instructions that inform a computer what it should do step-by-step to achieve the task.
Profit and Loss (P&L) Statement
A profit and loss (P&L) statement is a financial document that gives that sum up the earnings, costs, and expenditures incurred during a specified period.
Programmability
Programmability implies that something is capable of following instructions.
Programmable Privacy
Programmable privacy redefines data protection in decentralized applications (dApps), offering a flexible concept that empowers users and developers to personalize privacy settings.
Proof Market
A proof market is a decentralized marketplace where users can buy and sell cryptographic proofs to verify ownership, the validity of a particular transaction and the authenticity of a piece of information or computation results.
Proof of Attendance Protocol
Proof of Attendance Protocol (POAP) refers to a business offering to use the ERC-721 NFT protocol on Ethereum to ascribe individuals a unique, non-fungible blockchain-based identifier that only the person can access
Proof of Personhood (PoP)
Proof of Personhood is a technological framework that verifies human identity in digital environments, distinguishing real humans from AI agents and bots through biometric validation, behavioral analysis, and optionally cryptographic verification.
Proof of Reserves (PoR)
Proof of Reserves (PoR) is a method of using cryptographic verification to demonstrate possession of digital assets.
Proof of Stake Authority (PoSA)
Proof of Stake Authority is an innovative consensus algorithm that represents a hybrid of Proof-of-Stake and Proof-of-Authority.
Proof-of-Authority (PoA)
A blockchain consensus mechanism that delivers comparatively fast transactions using identity as a stake.
Proof-of-Burn
Proof-of-burn is an attempt at creating a system that can prevent fraudulent transactions on a blockchain and can also improve the overall efficiency and functioning of the blockchain.
Proof-of-Burn (PoB)
A blockchain consensus mechanism aiming to bootstrap one blockchain to another with increased energy efficiency, by verifying that a cost was incurred in “burning” a coin by sending it to an unspendable address.
Proof-of-Developer (PoD)
Any verification that provides evidence of a real, living software developer who created a cryptocurrency, in order to prevent an anonymous developer from making away with any raised funds without delivering a working model.
Proof-of-Donation
Proof-of-donation refers to the integration of charitable donations into the functionality of a blockchain.
Proof-of-History (PoH)
Proof of History (PoH) nodes have internal clocks that validate events and time. The incoming events are hashed using a verifiable delay function, also known as VDF, that increases the speed and scalability of a blockchain.
Proof-of-Immutability (PoIM)
Proof-of-Immutability (PoIM) is a novel blockchain architecture designed to protect data privacy in a distributed network. PoIM enables the blockchain to persist data in a decentralized and provably immutable manner, without having to distribute the data among nodes.
Proof-of-Replication
Proof-of-replication (PoRep) is the way that a storage miner proves to the network that they are storing an entirely unique copy of a piece of data.
Proof-of-Spacetime
In simplest terms, PoSt means that someone can now guarantee that they are spending a certain amount of space for storage. 
Proof-of-Stake (PoS)
A blockchain consensus mechanism in addition to Proof-of-Work that maintains the integrity of blockchain.
Proof-of-Time (PoT)
Proof-of-Time (PoT) is a decentralized, scalable, verifiably secure, and environmentally-friendly consensus algorithm that checks event data by choosing validators based on their ranking scores and a fixed stake.
Proof-of-Validation
Proof-of-validation (PoV) is a unique proof-of-stake (PoS) consensus mechanism that works to achieve consensus through staked validator nodes.
Proof-of-Work (PoW)
A blockchain consensus mechanism involving solving of computationally intensive puzzles to validate transactions and create new blocks. *see Proof-of-Stake (PoS).
Protocol
The set of rules that define interactions on a network, usually involving consensus, transaction validation, and network participation on a blockchain.
Protocol Layer
A protocol layer of the blockchain is defined as the rules and processes that govern how the network will operate. This is where we can find the different algorithms that determine how consensus is achieved and who gets to create new blocks.
Pseudonymous
Writing under a false name, such as “Satoshi Nakamoto.”
Public Address
A public address is the cryptographic hash of a public key, allowing the user to use it as an address to request for payment.
Public Blockchain
A blockchain that can be accessed by anyone.
Public Key
A public key refers to a series of alphanumeric characters used to encrypt plain text messages into ciphertext.
Public Sale
A public sale is the final stage of an ICO in which a company offers its token to the public at a significant discount before the token is listed on cryptocurrency exchanges.
Public-Key Cryptography
Public-key cryptography is a collection of algorithms-based cryptographic procedures that are used to jumble secret data and make it look randomized.
Public-Key Infrastructure
A public key infrastructure (PKI) is a collection of roles, rules, hardware, software, and processes for creating, managing, distributing, using, storing, and revoking digital certificates, as well as managing public-key encryption.
Pump and Dump (P&D) Scheme
A form of fraud involving the artificial inflation of the price of a cryptocurrency with false and misleading positive statements.
Pure Proof of Stake (PPoS)
Pure Proof of Stake (PPoS) is Algorand’s consensus mechanism that allows random selection of validators based on the consistency of their stakes.
Put Option
A put option contract offers an owner the opportunity, but not the compulsion, to buy an underlying security at a certain price within a given time frame.
Pyramid Scheme
A pyramid scheme is a scam with a hierarchical top-down structure.
Q
QR Code
A machine-readable label that shows information encoded into a graphical black-and-white pattern.
Quant Zone (FTX Exchange)
A tool to create and share trading strategies on the FTX exchange.
Quantum Bit (Qubit)
A unit of measurement for the number of bits in quantum information, and is also called a "qubit."
Quantum Computing
A computer that harnesses phenomena from quantum mechanics in order to perform much more efficient computations than older, classical computer technologies are capable of.
Quasar Smart Contract (OMG Foundation)
A smart contract by OMG Network to solve layer-2 blockchain problems.
Quorum (Governance
A quorum is the minimum number of members of an assembly or group that must be present at any of its meetings to make the proceedings of that meeting valid.
R
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID)
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is a type of technology that uses radio waves to passively identify a tagged item or individual.
Rage-quit
Rage-quit is the process where a member of a DAO exits part or all of their stake, leaves with a proportional share of the assets in the DAO’s treasury, and quits their participation.
Raiden Network
An off-chain scaling solution aiming to enable near-instant, low-fee and scalable payments on the Ethereum blockchain, similar to Bitcoin's proposed Lightning Network.
Rank
The relative position of a cryptocurrency by market capitalization.
Ransomware
Ransomware is a type of malware used by hackers to steal or encrypt their victims’ files to extort them for a ransom in exchange for file decryption or restoration.
Real World Assets (RWAs)
Real World Assets are off-chain assets, which are tokenized and brought on-chain for use in DeFi. Tokenization involves converting an asset's value into a digital token for representation and transactions on the blockchain.
Rebalancing
Rebalancing is the process of realigning the weightage of a portfolio of assets, that involves buying or selling assets periodically to maintain a targeted level of asset allocation and risk.
Rebase
A token designed so that the circulating supply adjusts automatically according to price fluctuations.
Recovery Seed
A recovery seed is a cryptographically derived security code composed of a list of random words, typically ranging between 12 and 14.
Recursion
Recursion refers to when a function calls on itself directly or indirectly in a circular loop(s).
Redundancy
The term refers to something that is in excess of that required for normal operation.
Regenerative Economy
A regenerative economy is a circular economic system that benefits the environment and society as a whole.
Regenerative Finance (ReFi)
Regenerative Finance can be defined as a system that regenerates its resource capacity over time.
Regens
Regen, like degen, is a term used to describe a crypto user who jumps into ReFi communities or invests in tokens that use blockchain technology to advance positive environmental impact.
Regional/Local/Community Currencies
A local currency is one that is spent in a certain geographical location. A regional currency refers to a local currency utilized in a larger area, and a community currency is often used within a specific community as a means of exchange.
Regulated
Regulation is when something is controlled by a specific set of rules.
Regulatory Compliance
Regulatory compliance is a set of mandates that every company or industry is required to follow to track accountability at work.
Rehypothecation
Rehypothecation is the practice where banks, and even the brokers themselves, use assets that have been posted as collateral by their clients for their own purposes.
Rehypothecation
Rehypothecation is a process where brokers use the assets collateralized by clients for their own benefit.
REKT
A shorthand slang for “wrecked,” describing a bad loss in a trade.
Relative Strength Index (RSI)
A form of technical analysis that serves as a momentum oscillator, measuring the speed and change of price movements.
Relay Chain
The Relay Chain is the central chain that is used by the Polkadot network.
Relay Nodes
Relay nodes help block-producing nodes communicate by guaranteeing that the authenticity of the core nodes and the blockchain is preserved, even if one or more relays are hacked.
Renewable Energy
Renewable energy is derived from solar, wind, and other ‘indefinite’ resources or operations that are renewed on a regular basis.
Repair Miners
Repair miners are a proposed type of mining node within the Filecoin network.
Replay Attack
Replay attacks are network security attacks where the comms between a sender and receiver is intercepted.
Replicated Ledger
A copy of a distributed ledger in a network that is distributed to all participants in a cryptocurrency network.
Replicated Security (RS)
Replicated Security (RS) is a new technology that lets a Cosmos blockchain share its economic security with another using the Inter-Blockchain Communication protocol (IBC).
Resistance (Line/Level)
The highest price level of an asset during a specific period.
Restaking
Restaking is a mechanism that allows validators on proof-of-stake (PoS) blockchain networks to redeploy their staked cryptocurrency across other PoS-based chains.
Retargeting
A retargeting algorithm, also referred to as a difficulty adjustment algorithm, is used on proof-of-work blockchains, such as Bitcoin. 
Retire Your Bloodline
"Retire your bloodline" is a popular crypto phrase that represents hitting it big enough in profits that not just you, but your entire family line would theoretically never have to work again.
Revenue Participation Tokens
Revenue participation tokens are a two token system that uses one participation token and one payout token.
Reverse ICO
In a reverse ICO, an already-established company raises funds by selling tokens to shift its structure to decentralization.
Reverse Indicator
A person whom you may use as an indicator of how not to place buy or sell orders because they are always wrong at predicting price movements of cryptocurrencies.
Ring CT (Confidential Transactions)
RingCT is how transaction amounts are hidden in Monero.
Ring Miners
Ring miners are network participants in the Loopring protocol who manage order rings and ensure trades are completed for all parties involved.
Ring Signature
A cryptographic digital signature that obfuscates the identities of two parties within a transaction.
Roadmap
A roadmap is a high-level visual summary that helps map out the vision as well as the direction of a specific product.
Roger Ver
Roger Ver, also known as Bitcoin Jesus, has been a long-term proponent of Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash.
ROI
Short for “Return on Investment,” the ratio between the net profit and cost of investing.
Rollups-as-a-Service (RaaS)
Rollups-as-a-Service (RaaS) allows builders to build and launch their own rollups quickly. RaaS providers deliver end-to-end solutions like customizations of the underlying tech stack, no-code management, and one-click custom integrations with core infrastructure.
Roth IRA
Roth IRAs are generally the best investment option when you think your taxes will be higher in retirement than they are now.
Rough Consensus
Rough consensus, in its bare essence, refers to a method of decision-making that doesn't necessarily require unanimity.
Ruby (Programming Language)
Ruby is a high-level programming language designed with a focus on simplicity and code readability.
Rug Pull
A rug pull is a type of scam where developers abandon a project and take their investors' money.
Rust
Rust is a multi-paradigm programming language, similar to C++.
Ryuk Ransomware
Ryuk ransomware is a ransomware attack first discovered in August 2018.
S
S&P 500 (Standard and Poor's 500)
The Standard and Poor's 500, also known as S&P 500, is a stock market index that represents a list of 500 public companies located in the U.S and their performance in the market.
Satoshi (SATS)
The smallest unit of bitcoin with a value of 0.00000001 BTC.
Satoshi Nakamoto
The individual or group of individuals that created Bitcoin.
Scale-Free Money
Scale-Free Money enables users to define values or objectives and then create and tie in specific denominations of money with those values.
Scaling Problem
The scaling problem is the limitations of a blockchain's transaction throughout and ability to have fast and low cast transactions.
Scaling Solution
A scaling solution is a method of enable a system to expand.
Scam
A scheme that is designed to dupe people out of cash or crypto.
Scamcoin
Coins that are created as "get rich quick schemes" by their developers are referred to as a scamcoin. 
Scammer
A scammer is someone that participates in a fraudulent scheme.
Scholarship/Scholar
A scholarship is a popular practice in the Axie Infinity universe where managers lend their free Axies to new players (scholars) and earn passively from the battle rewards.
Script
A computer script is a list of commands that are executed by a certain program or scripting language.
Scripting Programming Language
A scripting language is a programming language that does not require the compilation step. It uses a high-level construct to carry out one command at a time.
Scrypt
An alternative proof-of-work (PoW) algorithm to SHA-256, used in Bitcoin mining. Scrypt mining relies more heavily on memory than on pure CPU power, aiming to reduce the advantage that ASICs have and hence increasing network participation and energy efficiency.
Second-Layer Solutions
A set of solutions built on top of a public blockchain to extend its scalability and efficiency, especially for micro-transactions or actions. Examples include Plasma, TrueBit, Lightning Network and more.
Secondary Market
A secondary market is a place where investors or traders can buy and sell different kinds of assets or securities that they own, with others.
Secure Asset Fund for Users (SAFU)
SAFU is the acronym for the "Secure Asset Fund for Users," an insurance fund established by Binance for emergency cases.
Secure Element
A secure element is a type of hardware chip that runs a specified number of applications.
Secure Multi-Party Computation (sMPC)
SMPC is a subfield of cryptography that allows parties to compute a function while keeping the inputs private.
Secure Proof of Stake (SPoS)
Secure Proof of Stake (SPoS) is a consensus mechanism used to secure blockchain networks. It is an evolution of the traditional proof-of-stake (PoS) consensus algorithm
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
An independent agency of the United States federal government, responsible for enforcing federal securities laws, proposing securities rules, and regulating the securities industry, the nation's stock and options exchanges, and other related activities and organizations.
Security
The term securities refers to a fungible and tradable financial instrument that carries a type of monetary value.
Security Token
A security token is essentially a digital form of traditional securities.
Security Token Offering
A security token offering (STO) is a public offering where tokenized digital securities are sold.
Seed Funding
Seed funding is a type of funding that provides capital to startups in exchange for equity in the company.
Seed Phrase
A single starting point when deriving keys for a deterministic wallet.
Segregated Witness (SegWit)
A Bitcoin Improvement Proposal (BIP) that aimed to fix transaction malleability on Bitcoin.
Selfish Mining
A situation in which a miner mines a new block but does not broadcast this new block to the other miners.
Sell Wall
A situation where a large limit order has been placed to sell when a cryptocurrency reaches a certain value.
Semantic Web
The ambition of the Semantic Web is to enable computers to manipulate information on our behalf.
Series B Funding
A Series B funding round is the second round of funding a business.
Settlement
Settlement refers to the process in which a user executes limit or market orders on an order-book-based DEX.
Settlement Layer
A settlement layer is a layer that essentially provides an anchor for an entire ecosystem.
SHA-256
A cryptographic hash function that generates a 256-bit signature for a text, used in Bitcoin proof-of-work (PoW).
Shamir’s Secret Sharing
Shamir’s Secret Sharing is a scheme to securely share highly sensitive information such as encryption keys by splitting the information into multiple parts called shares.
Shanghai Upgrade
The Shanghai Upgrade will allow users to unstake and withdraw their ETH from the network.
Shard
Essentially, a shard is a portion of a blockchain network that has been split into multiple shards, which has its own data.
Shard Chain
In the world of cryptocurrencies, sharding can reduce the network congestion as well as increase transactions per second through the creation of new chains
Sharding
Sharding is a scaling approach that enables splitting of blockchain states into partitions containing states and transaction history, so that each shard can be processed in parallel.
Shelley Phase
The second era of Cardano – Shelley Phase is named after Percy Shelley, an English Poet.
Shiba Inu Token (SHIB)
The Shiba Inu token (SHIB), is a decentralized memecoin based on the Ethereum network.
Shielded Address
A shielded address is generated for a shielded transaction, where a payment is made using the blockchain network by keeping the related information private.
Shielded Transaction
A shielded transaction is essentially a transaction that is between two shielded addresses.
Shilling
The act of enthusiastically promoting a cryptocurrency or ICO project.
Shitcoin
A coin with no obvious potential value or usage.
SHO (Strong Holder Offering)
A strong holder offering (SHO) is a fundraising mechanism where eligible investors are chosen based on their on-chain activities and other proprietary data sets.
Short
A trading technique in which a trader borrows an asset in order to sell it, with the expectation that the price will continue to decline. In the event that the price does decline, the short seller will then buy the asset at this lower price in order to return it to the lender of the asset, making the difference in profit.
Short Squeeze
A short squeeze is an unusual market condition that causes the price of a coin to rise quickly, encouraging traders (who are betting against the price of the token) to buy it to avoid losses.
Side Channel Attack
A side channel attack is a hacking method that exploits a computer’s inherent “tells" that unintentionally convey information.
Sidechain
A sidechain is a separate blockchain, tied to its parent blockchain via a two-way peg.
Signal
Signals are a call to action to either buy or sell an asset.
Silk Road
An online black market that existed on the dark web, now shut down by the FBI.
SIM-Swap
A type of scam that exploits two-factor authentication measures.
Simple Agreement for Future Token (SAFT)
A Simple Agreement for Future Token (SAFT) is a contractual agreement at the time of launch of a token creating ownership rights for token investors at a future date. It is treated by market participants as financial security and hence is regulated by the relevant government institutions.
Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP)
Simple Ledger Protocol (SLP) is a token system that works on top of Bitcoin Cash. It allows users to create their own tokens to represent anything they can dream of.
Simplified Payment Verification (SPV)
A lightweight client to verify blockchain transactions.
Skynet
A platform built on Sia blockchain for decentralized content storage.
Slashing
Slashing is a form of penalty on Proof of Stake (PoS) networks implemented to ensure accountability.
Slippage
Slippage happens when traders have to settle for a different price than what they initially requested due to a price movement.
Slot (Cardano)
The smallest time period in the Cardano blockchain.
Smart Contract
A smart contract is a computer protocol intended to facilitate, verify or enforce a contract on the blockchain without third parties.
Smart Contract Audit
A smart contract audit is a security check done by cybersecurity professionals meant to ensure that the on-chain code behind a smart contract is devoid of bugs or security vulnerabilities.
Smart Home
A smart home is a technology that allows to manage and automate household systems, such as lights, doors, thermostats, security alarms, and other connected equipment from a distance.
Smart Money
Smart money refers to the funds invested by individuals or entities with extensive financial experience, knowledge, and a keen eye for lucrative opportunities. T
Smart Token
Smart tokens are simply regular tokens that not only transmit value they contain but also all the information needed to execute a transaction simultaneously.
Smart Treasury (Balancer)
Smart treasury is a mechanism for automatic buyback of project tokens in the DeFi industry.
Snapshot
A snapshot in the blockchain world is the act of documenting the status of a blockchain at a specific block height.
Sniping in Crypto
Crypto sniping refers to a trading strategy where traders aim to capitalize on brief market inefficiencies or newly launched tokens by executing trades at high speed.
Social Engineering
Social engineering is the use of deception to manipulate people into performing an action or giving away their secret information.
Soft Cap
The minimum amount that an initial coin offering (ICO) wants to raise.
Soft Fork (Blockchain)
A protocol upgrade where only previously valid transactions are made invalid, with most soft forks requiring miners to upgrade their mining software.
Soft Peg
In finance, a soft peg is a method of keeping the value of a currency within a certain range against a reserve currency by using an exchange rate regime.
Software Library
A software library is a collection of code that can be referenced while developing other executable programs.
Software Stack
Software stack refers to a set of software products or components that work together to provide a particular function.
Software Wallet
A software wallet, also known as a wallet app, is an application that allows users to HODL, send, and receive cryptocurrencies.
Solana Virtual Machine (SVM)
The Solana Virtual Machine, or SVM, is the system powering Solana's ability to handle thousands of transactions per second.
Solidity
The programming language used by Ethereum for developing smart contracts.
Solver
A solver is defined as an entity that executes a specific task requested by a user, known as an "intent."
Source Code
A collection of lines or computer-executable commands written in a high-level language is called a source code.
SPAC
A special purpose acquisition company (SPAC) is formed by investors in order to publicly list an organization without going through the troubles that come with the traditional IPO process.
Spear Phishing
Spear phishing is a personalized, targeted cyber attack that uses your interest to trick you into clicking a malicious link in an email.
Speculative Investment
Speculative investment is an investment where the investor expects a high return with a significant risk of loss.
Spoon (Blockchain)
A hard spoon is a meta-protocol that exists on top of a blockchain.
Spot
A contract or transaction buying or selling a cryptocurrency for immediate settlement, or payment and delivery, of the cryptocurrency on the market.
Spot Market
A public market in which cryptocurrencies are traded for immediate settlement. It contrasts with a futures market, in which settlement is due at a later date.
Spot Trading
Spot trading involves the immediate exchange of a financial instrument at the current price.
Spyware
Spyware is a malware that records all of the activities on an electronic device.
Stablecoin
A cryptocurrency with extremely low volatility, sometimes used as a means of portfolio diversification. Examples include gold-backed cryptocurrency or fiat-pegged cryptocurrency.
Stacking Sats
"Stacking sats" refers to the practice of accumulating small amounts of Bitcoin, typically expressed in "satoshis," the smallest unit of a Bitcoin.
Stagflation
Stagflation is a period during which an economy sees simultaneous stagnant growth and rising inflation (in other words, growth and inflation move in opposite directions).
Staking
Staking is a form of participation in a proof-of-stake (PoS) system to put your tokens in to serve as a validator to the blockchain and receive rewards.
Staking Pool
Staking Pools allows users to combine their resources in order to increase their chances of earning rewards. This mechanism offers more staking power to the network to verify and validate new blocks.
Stale Block
A block which was successfully mined but not included on the current longest blockchain, usually because another block at the same height was added to the chain first.
State Channel
A second-layer scaling solution that reduces the total on-chain transactions necessary, moving the transactions off-chain and letting participants sign to the main chain after multiple off-chain transactions.
Stochastic Oscillator
A stochastic oscillator is a popular technical indicator used for identifying overbought and oversold stock/asset/cryptocurrency levels that rely on an asset's price history, as it tend to fluctuate within a specific price range..
Stock-to-Flow Ratio
The stock-to-flow ratio is a metric used to measure the scarcity of a commodity, particularly precious metals and cryptocurrencies.
Stop-Loss Order
A stop-loss order in trading allows investors to determine the lowest price at which they are willing to sell an asset and trigger an automatic sell order when and if this price is reached.
Storage (Decentralized)
Decentralized storage refers to the concept of storing files online by splitting them into encrypted fragments and delegating these fragments to multiple nodes on a distributed network, e.g. a blockchain.
Storage Miners
Storage miners are cryptocurrency miners who rely on offering sufficient storage space for nodes to reach consensus and validate transactions.
Storage Node
Storage nodes are the principal part of the Storj decentralized cloud storage network.
Store of Value
A store of value is an asset, commodity or currency that can be saved, retrieved as well as exchanged in the future without it losing any value.
Stroop
A stroop is the smallest unit of Lumen (XLM).
Subgraph Manifest
A component of Subgraph that entails information pertaining to subgraph’s data sources, templates, and more.
Subnet
A subnet is a smaller network within a larger network. Think of all the computers, printers and other devices that make up a network as pieces of a huge jigsaw puzzle. A subnet is like a chunk of that jigsaw; it collects nodes that all have something in common.
Substrate
Substrate is a web app development framework developed by Parity Technologies.
Succinct Proofs of Random Access (SPoRA)
Succinct Proofs of Random Access (SPoRA) is a consensus mechanism used to confirm transactions and validate blocks on the Arweave decentralized network.
Supercomputer
A supercomputer is a superior version of a general-purpose computer, which has a significantly increased capacity and processing power.
Supercycle
In economics, a "supercycle" describes an extended period characterized by the outsized growth of a particular asset or sector.
Supply and Demand
Supply and demand are the levels in an economy that determine the market's willingness to buy or sell assets or services, respectively.
Supply Chain
A supply chain is the collection of steps that a product or service needs to go through before reaching the final customer.
Supply Chain Attack
A supply chain attack is a tactic used by hackers to compromise third-party suppliers to major corporations, governments and organizations to gain valuable information.
Support Level
A support level in crypto is when the price of a crypto asset stops depreciating because of increased supply from buyers that wish to buy at a certain price.
Surge (Ethereum)
The Ethereum Surge is a development stage of the Ethereum network. It includes a set of upgrades, most notably sharding.
Swarm
A swarm is a group of peers that are sharing the same torrent.
Swing Failure Pattern (SFP)
A swing failure pattern (SFP) is a trend reversal indicator that can be used to discover a weakness in the current trend and identify early reversal signs.
Swing Trading
Swing trading is a market trading technique that aims to profit from short to medium-term price changes in stocks, commodities, and/or currencies over a period of days or weeks.
Sybil Attack
Sybil attacks undermine an online network by creating many IDs, accounts or nodes to upset the balance of power.
Symbol
The ticker of a cryptocurrency; for example, Bitcoin's symbol is BTC.
Symmetric Key Cryptography
Symmetric key cryptography is a type of cryptography that uses a single key to both encrypt and decrypt data.
Synthetic Asset
Synthetic assets, sometimes referred to as synths, are a combination of cryptocurrencies and traditional derivative assets. In other words, synths are tokenized derivatives.
T
T-Address (Zcash)
T-addresses are one of the two types of addresses available for the privacy-focused cryptocurrency, Zcash, used when transparency is desired.
Taint
The percentage of cryptocurrency in an account that can be traced to another account.
Take Profit
A take-profit order is an act of selling cryptocurrency to secure profits. It is usually executed at a predetermined price when the trade is in profit.
Tamper-Proof Ledger
A tamper-proof ledger is essentially any system of records that has the fundamental properties of a blockchain distributed ledger.
Tangle
The Tangle is a blockchain alternative developed by IOTA, using directed acyclic graphs which only builds in one single direction and in a way that it never repeats, and is quantum-computing resistant.
Tap-to-Earn Crypto Games
Tap-to-earn crypto games are applications that allow users to earn crypto rewards by performing simple, repetitive actions - typically tapping or clicking on their device screens.
Taproot
Taproot is an instantiation of a soft fork for Bitcoin, intended to both improve privacy and improve other aspects tied to more complex transactions.
Tardigrade (Storj)
Tardigrade is the decentralized cloud storage service provided by the Storj platform.
Technical Analysis/Trend Analysis (TA)
An evaluation method involving statistical analyses of market activity, such as price and volume. Charts and other tools are used to identify patterns to underpin and drive investment decisions.
Technical Indicators
A technical indicator is a statistical algorithm or pattern-based indication based on a security's or contract's historical price, volume, and/or open interest.
Tendermint
Tendermint is a consensus mechanism that allows applications to launch across different machines securely and consistently.
Terahashes Per Second
Terahashes per second (Th/s) is equivalent to 1 trillion (1,000,000,000,000) hashes per second, a unit that indicates the power of a computer or mining machine.
Testnet
An alternative blockchain used by developers for testing.
The Barbell Strategy
A method in which investors put their money in two extremes of high-risk and no-risk assets while ignoring the middle-risk assets.
The Cantillon Effect
Developed by Richard Cantillon, The Cantillon Effect is a change in relative prices resulting from a change in the money supply.
The DAO
The DAO is the first decentralized autonomous organization, which was created by a group of developers in April 2016.
The Merge (Ethereum 2.0)
The merge is a planned network upgrade that will combine the Ethereum mainnet and the Beacon Chain to transition from the proof-of-work consensus mechanism to the proof-of-stake system.
Think Long Term (TLT)
A mindset where you have a longer-term investment horizon of months to years.
This Is Gentlemen
Originally an error in writing the full “This is it, gentlemen”. It is now used as an introduction for good news.
Throughput
Throughput is how many actions can be completed in a given time frame.
Ticker
An abbreviation used to uniquely identify cryptocurrencies. *see Symbol.
Ticker Symbol
The ticker symbol is the unique combination of letters assigned to stocks or cryptocurrencies that makes them distinguishable on exchanges and other trading applications.
Time-Weighted Automated Market Maker (TWAMM)
Time-Weighted Automated Market Maker (TWAMM) aims to help traders execute large orders with minimal slippage and low gas fees without negatively affecting the price.
Time-weighted Average Price (TWAP)
The time-weighted average price (TWAP) is a trading indicator based on weighted average price, which shows the average price of an asset as it rises and falls during a given or specific time period.
Timelock/Locktime
A condition for a transaction to only be processed at a certain time or block on the blockchain.
Timestamp
A form of identification for when a certain transaction occurred.
Tipset
A tipset is a set, rather than a chain, of blocks that make up a blockchain. 
Token
A digital unit designed with utility in mind, providing access and use of a larger crypto economic system.
Token Economy
An economy of goods and services that can run without intermediaries and third parties with the help of the blockchain technology.
Token Generation Event (TGE)
The time at which a token is issued.
Token Issuance
Token issuance is the process of creating new tokens and adding them to the total token supply of a cryptocurrency.
Token Lockup
Token lockup refers to a time period during which cryptocurrency tokens cannot be exchanged or traded.
Token Migration
Token migration refers to the process of moving tokens from one blockchain to another as a result of a change in the blockchain.
Token Sale
A token sale refers to the initial offering of a cryptocurrency token to a private pool of investors before it officially goes on the market.
Token Standard
The most common token standard today is the Ethereum Request for Comment or ERC.
Token Swap
Token swap refers to the direct exchange of a certain amount of one cryptocurrency token for another between users facilitated by a special exchange service. It can also be defined as the migration of a cryptocurrency token built on top of one blockchain platform to a different blockchain.
Tokenization
The process by which real-world assets are turned into something of digital value called a token, often subsequently able to offer ownership of parts of this asset to different owners.
Tokenized Carbon Credits
Tokenized carbon credits represent carbon that has been avoided or removed from the environment. One metric tonne of carbon verifiably avoided or removed translates to one carbon credit.
Tokenized Identity
Tokenized identity refers to the representation of an identity as a digital token on a blockchain, enabling seamless, interoperable identity verification across platforms and applications.
Tokenized Securities
Tokenized securities are when the ownership of a security is materialized through the issuance of a token.
Tokenized Stocks
Tokenized Stocks are the digital assets that are traded on exchanges using blockchain technology.
Tokenomics
Tokenomics is the science of token economy which consists of a set of rules that governs a cryptocurrency's issuance and supply.
TokenSets (Set Protocol)
TokenSets is a Set Protocol-based decentralized platform for crypto portfolio management.
Toll Bridge
A toll bridge is a bridge powered by a smart contract where a monetary value called a toll fee unlocks access to extra functionalities.
Tor
Tor is a decentralized network that anonymizes users' web traffic by encrypting it and routing it through a series of relays before it reaches its final destination.
Total Exchange Volume
Total exchange volume is a measure of the total value that has been traded on an exchange(s).
Total Supply
The total amount of coins in existence right now, minus any coins that have been verifiably burned. *see Circulating Supply and Max Supply.
Total Value Locked (TVL)
Тotal value locked represents the number of assets that are currently being staked in a specific protocol.
Trade Volume
The amount of the cryptocurrency that has been traded in the last 24 hours.

TradFi
TradFi, short for Traditional Finance, refers to the conventional financial system and institutions that have been the backbone of the global economy for centuries.

Trading Bot
A crypto trading bot is essentially a program that is designed to automate cryptocurrency asset trading on the behalf of the trader.

Trading Tournament
Trading tournaments are unique crypto trading campaigns organized by cryptocurrency exchanges, encouraging users to trade more to win incentives, such as tokens, hardware wallets and more/

Trading Volume
Тrading volume refers to the total number of shares (or tokens/coins) that have been exchanged between buyers and sellers of a given asset during trading hours of a certain day.

TradingView
TradingView is an online web-based platform that provides investors and traders with a user-friendly interface to analyze financial markets using charts and technical indicators.

Transaction (TX)
The act of exchanging cryptocurrencies on a blockchain.
Transaction Fee
A payment for using the blockchain to transact.

Transaction ID (TXID)
A transaction ID (TXID) is the unique identification number of each blockchain transaction.
Transaction Triggers
Triggers can be set up on a blockchain, which group various transactions together to be executed when the designated conditions are met.

Transactions Per Second (TPS)
Transactions per second (TPS) is a measure of a computer system's (or network's) capacity to perform transactions or calculations in a second.

TRC-10 (TRON)
TRC10 is a technological token standard that does not require the TRON Virtual Machine and is backed by the TRON blockchain network (TVM).

TRC-20 Token
The TRC-20 token standard allows for tokens to be created on the TRON network.

Treasury Bills (T-Bills)
Treasury bills (T-Bills) are short-term U.S. government debt obligations.

Treasury Bond (T-Bond)
The treasury bond is a debt security issued by the United States government that is backed by the "full faith and credit" of the U.S. Treasury Department.

Trojan
A trojan is a type of malware that is often disguised as legitimate software.

Truffle
For blockchains using EVM, truffle acts as a development environment and a testing framework, a widely used tool for blockchain application development.

Trust
A trust is a fiduciary relationship in which one party, known as a trustor, gives another party, the trustee, the right to hold title to property or assets for the benefit of a third party, the beneficiary.

Trust Wallet
Trust Wallet is a crypto wallet software that gives its users complete ownership of their crypto funds.

Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs)
Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) are secure areas within a main processor that provide a protected space where sensitive code and data can operate without fear of tampering or observation from the outside world.

Trusted Yield Environment (TYE)
Trusted Yield Environment (TYE) is a specialized DeFi security infrastructure that protects AI agents. It provides curated API access to blue-chip DeFi opportunities, helping agents who manage on-chain capital safely deploy their capital into vetted yield-generating protocols.

Trustless
An environment where there is no centralized authority.

Tumbler
A mixing service that helps make cryptocurrency funds and transactions more anonymous.

Turing Completeness
Turing completeness refers to the capability of a system or programming language to solve any problem that can be solved by a machine created by mathematician Alan Turing.

Turing-Complete
A system that in principle could be able to solve any computation problem.

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA)
Two-factor authentication (2FA) is method of access that requires two different forms of authentication.

Type Checking
A process in programming languages to verify whether or not each operation in the program is in accordance with the type declaration rules of the language.

TypeScript Programming Language
TypeScript programming language is a more advanced version of JavaScript that includes more functionality.

Typosquatting
Typosquatting is a deceptive practice used by scammers to trick people into entering a counterfeit website and compromising their private information.


Unbanked
Unbanked refers to those that are either unable to access banking services, or choose not to.

Uncle Block (Ommer Block)
Uncle Block (Ommer Block) refers to the discarded block in the phenomenon when two blocks are simultaneously created, resulting in one block being omitted from the blockchain.

Unconfirmed
A state in which a transaction has not been appended to the blockchain.

UNI Token
A native governance token of Uniswap, the largest decentralized exchange at the time of writing.

Unit of Account
A unit of account is a standardized unit of measurement used in accounting to record and track financial transactions.

United States House Committee on Financial Services
The U.S. House Committee on Financial Services is a committee of the United States House of Representatives that oversees all components of the US’s financial and housing services.

Unpermissioned Ledger
A public ledger that is open to anyone, without being controlled by a single owner.

Unrealized Profit & Loss
Unrealized profit and loss occur when you have a position open in a security that has appreciated or depreciated in value.

Unregulated
Something that isn’t controlled by a centralized authority or a governing intuition.

Unspent Transaction Output (UTXO)
A transaction that is left unspent after being completed, similar to leftover change after making a purchase.

Unstoppable Domains
Unstoppable Domains is the name of a San-Francisco based company that provides blockchain-based domain names to users.

US Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)
The US Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is a financial intelligence and enforcement agency of the US Treasury Department.

Use Case
A use case is a description of the interactions between an actor (human or system) and a system that leads to an event.

Useful Proof of Work (UPoW)
UPoW channels computational power into training artificial intelligence (AI).

User Interface
The user interface is the user’s interaction with a website or application using a digital device.

UTC Time
Coordinated Universal Time.

Utility Mining
Utility mining is a mechanism that allows for the distribution of tokens based on user activity and active participation. This allows crypto projects to distribute flexible yields attached to any specified on-chain interaction.

Utility Token
Tokens that are designed specifically to be able to help people use something.


Valhalla in Crypto
In crypto, Valhalla represents the promised land - that moment when your diamond hands finally pay off and you achieve financial freedom.

Validator
A participant on a proof-of-stake (PoS) blockchain, involved in validating blocks for rewards.

Vanity Address
A cryptocurrency public address with custom letters and numbers, usually picked by its owner.

Vaporware
A cryptocurrency project that is never actually developed.

Venture Capital
A form of private equity provided to fund small, early-stage firms considered to have high growth potential.

Verifiable Internet
The goal of the Verifiable Internet is to eliminate the cost and expense of confirming the authenticity of digital data, and to have proof of the verification easily transferred as the data moves from place to place.

Verification Code
A verification code is a security protection method that is used to avoid internet bots from abusing or even spamming various online services. 

Vesting Period
The act of restricting the sale of a token for a particular period of time.

Virgin Bitcoin
A Bitcoin that has never been spent.

Virtual Automated Market Makers (vAMMs)
A virtual Automated Market Maker (vAMM) is a system that provides synthetic (or virtual) liquidity, allowing traders to buy and sell derivatives entirely on the blockchain.

Virtual Commodity Association (VCA)
The virtual commodity association is a non-profit organization of cryptocurrency exchanges and custodians with an aim to build a self-regulatory organization (SRO) for the U.S. virtual currency industry.

Virtual Private Network (VPN)
A virtual private network (VPN) is a technology that creates a safe and encrypted network from a public internet connection – giving you anonymity and privacy.

Virtual Reality (VR)
Virtual reality (VR) technology is used to simulate an immersive artificial world that can mimic or transcend reality. V

Virus
Computers are usually infected with a virus when a user unknowingly installs it via a downloaded file.

Vitalik Buterin
Vitalik Buterin is one of the creators of Ethereum, the second-largest cryptocurrency after Bitcoin.

Volatility
A statistical measure of dispersion of returns, measured by using the standard deviation or variance between returns from that same security or market index.

Volume
How much cryptocurrency has been traded over a set period, such as the past 24 hours.



WAGMI
WAGMI stands for "We're All Gonna Make It." It's a phrase about positivity, optimism, and a collective belief in success.

Wallet
A place where cryptocurrency users can store, send and receive digital assets.

Wallet Score
A Bayesian statistical modeling system that assigns daily scores to wallet addresses based on user activity across blockchain ecosystems, where higher wallet scores demonstrate a statistical relationship with increased market capitalization.

Wallstreetbets (WSB)
Wallstreetbets, otherwise known as /r/wallstreetbets or WSB, is a subreddit for participants to discuss stock and options trading. 

WannaCry Ransomware
WannaCry is a piece of ransomware that can infect and spread rapidly through a number of computer networks. 

Wasabi Wallet
Wasabi is an open-source and privacy-focused wallet for Bitcoin, available for Windows, Linus and macOS.

Wash Trade
A form of market manipulation in which investors create artificial activity in the marketplace by simultaneously selling and buying the same cryptocurrencies.

Watchdog Organization
Non-profit organizations that critically monitor the activities of governments or other entities on behalf of the public.

Watcher (OMG Foundation)
A Watcher on OMG Foundation is a computer that observes the child chain and block producer and makes sure network transactions are correctly confirmed.

Watchlist
A watchlist is a feature of the website where users can create their own lists of cryptocurrencies to follow.

Weak Hands
An investor prone to panic selling at the first sign of a price decline.

Web 1.0
Web 1.0 is a term that is often used to describe the early version of the internet.

Web 2.0
Web 2.0 describes the current state of the web, which supports more user-generated content and stability for front-end users than its predecessor, Web 1.0

Web 3.0
Web 3.0 is the coming generation of the internet.

Web3 Foundation
The Web3 Foundation was created to foster new technologies and applications in the field of decentralized web software protocols.

WebSocket
WebSocket enables two-way communication between a client (e.g., a web browser) and a server (which can be either an HTTP server or another WebSocket server).

Wei
The smallest fraction of an Ether, with each Ether to 1000000000000000000 Wei.

Whale
A term used to describe investors who have uncommonly large amounts of crypto, especially those with enough funds to manipulate the market.

What Is the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN)?
The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) is a U.S. bureau that analyzes financial transactions to prevent financial crimes.

When Lambo
A phrase referring to when cryptocurrency holders will become rich enough to afford the purchase of a Lamborghini.

When Moon
A phrase used to ask when the price of cryptocurrencies will explode.

White Hat Computer Hacker
White hat hackers use their skills to improve security by exposing vulnerabilities before malicious hackers (known as black hat hackers) can detect and exploit them.

White Label
White Labeling allows a company to customize an existing product framework in order to rebrand and resell this product as their own.

White Label Staking
In white-label staking, the crypto holders get their validator node explicitly created for them. This is then managed entirely on their behalf by a third-party operator.

White Swan Event
A white swan is an easily predictable event that is anticipated based on current information and forecasting.

Whitelist
A list of interested participants in an initial coin offering, who registered their intent to take part or purchase in a sale.

Whitepaper
A document released by a crypto project that gives investors technical information about its concept, and a roadmap for how it plans to grow and succeed.

Winding Down
Winding down is the process of unwrapping tokens back to their original form in DeFi.

Winding Up
In decentralized finance (DeFi), winding up essentially means wrapping crypto tokens through various projects in order to find the best yield. 

x86 Virtual Machine (Qtum)
X86 Virtual Machine enables Qtum developers to write smart contracts in a language of their choice.

XBT
XBT is the lesser-known ticker symbol for Bitcoin.


Yield Curve
The yield curve is a line that plots the relationship between yields and maturities of fixed income securities.

Yield Farming
Yield farming involves earning interest by investing crypto in decentralized finance markets.

Yield Sensitivity
Yield sensitivity or interest rate sensitivity is a measure of how much a fixed income asset’s price changes due to the fluctuation in interest rates.

YTD
Stands for Year to Date.


Zero Confirmation Transaction
Alternative phrasing for an unconfirmed transaction.

Zero Confirmation/Unconfirmed Transaction
A zero confirmation or unconfirmed transaction is defined as an exchange that has not yet been recorded or verified on the blockchain

Zero Knowledge Proof
Proving certain information or data is true without revealing it.

Zero Knowledge Rollup
A zero knowledge rollup is a type of layer 2 scaling solution that relies on zero knowledge cryptography

Zero Knowledge Rollups
A zero-knowledge rollup is a Layer 2 blockchain solution that performs computations and storage off-chain while funds are held in a smart contract.

Zero-Knowledge (ZK) Hardware
Zero-Knowledge (ZK) hardware refers to processors specially designed to accelerate Zero-Knowledge proofs, which verify actions and transactions on the blockchain without exposing underlying data.

Zero-Knowledge Proof
In cryptography, a zero-knowledge proof enables one party to provide evidence that a transaction or event happened without revealing private details of that transaction or event.

ZK Coprocessor
A ZK Coprocessor functions as an auxiliary processing unit that operates alongside a blockchain's main network. Its primary role is to execute complex computations off-chain and subsequently generate zero-knowledge proofs that attest to the correctness of these computations.

Zk-SNARKs
A proof that allows one party to prove it owns certain information without revealing it.

zkApps
zkApps leverage the zero-knowledge proofs (ZKPs), particularly zk-SNARKs and zk-STARKs, to unlock a realm of possibilities that surpass traditional blockchain applications.

ZKML (Zero-Knowledge Machine Learning)
ZKML enables verification of ML models while keeping data private through zero-knowledge proofs.

zkOracle
zkOracles utilize Zero Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs) as a trustless medium through which data can pass freely whilst retaining a robust standard of security, privacy and cost-efficiency.

zkSharding
zkSharding is a re-introduced concept of Ethereum’s sharded execution layer which scales blockchains with parallelized execution within shards secured via zkEVM proofs.

zParachain
A zParachain is an approach to bridging where a dedicated blockchain in the broader Polkadot ecosystem is used specifically to connect to a network that’s outside the Polkadot ecosystem.

